一般数据保护条例（GDPR）中英对照
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
CHAPTER I General provisions / 第一章 一般条款
Article 1 Subject-matter and objectives / 第1条 主要事项与目标
This Regulation lays down rules relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and rules relating to the free movement of personal data.
This Regulation protects fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and in particular their right to the protection of personal data.
The free movement of personal data within the Union shall be neither restricted nor prohibited for reasons connected with the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data.
1．本条例制定关于处理个人数据中对自然人进行保护的规则，以及个人数据自由流动的规则。
2．本条例保护自然人的基本权利与自由，特别是自然人享有的个人数据保护的权利。
3．不能以保护处理个人数据中的相关自然人为由，对欧盟内部个人数据的自由流动进行限制或禁止。
Article 2 Material scope / 第2条 适用范围
This Regulation applies to the processing of personal data wholly or partly by automated means and to the processing other than by automated means of personal data which form part of a filing system or are intended to form part of a filing system.
This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data:
in the course of an activity which falls outside the scope of Union law;
by the Member States when carrying out activities which fall within the scope of Chapter 2 of Title V of the TEU;
by a natural person in the course of a purely personal or household activity;
by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public security.
For the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 applies. Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and other Union legal acts applicable to such processing of personal data shall be adapted to the principles and rules of this Regulation in accordance with Article 98.
This Regulation shall be without prejudice to the application of Directive 2000/31/EC, in particular of the liability rules of intermediary service providers in Articles 12 to 15 of that Directive.
1．本条例适用于全自动个人数据处理、半自动个人数据处理，以及形成或旨在形成用户画像的非自动个人数据处理。
2．本条例不适用以下情形：
(a)欧盟法管辖之外的活动中所进行的个人数据处理；
(b)欧盟成员国为履行《欧盟基本条约》（TEU）第2章第5款所规定的活动而进行的个人数据处理；
(c)自然人在纯粹个人或家庭活动中所进行的个人数据处理；
(d)有关主管部门为预防、调查、侦查、起诉刑事犯罪、执行刑事处罚、防范及预防公共安全威胁而进行的个人数据处理。
3．欧盟机构、实体、办事处和规制机构所进行的个人数据处理，适用(EC)第 45/2001条例。根据本条例第98条，(EC)第45/2001条例和其他适用于此类个人数据处理的欧盟法案应当进行调整，以符合本条例的原则和规则。
4．本条例不影响2000/31/EC指令的适用，特别是2000/31/EC指令第12至15条所规定的中间服务商的责任规则的适用。
Article 3 Territorial scope / 第3条 地域范围
This Regulation applies to the processing of personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment of a controller or a processor in the Union, regardless of whether the processing takes place in the Union or not.
This Regulation applies to the processing of personal data of data subjects who are in the Union by a controller or processor not established in the Union, where the processing activities are related to:
the offering of goods or services, irrespective of whether a payment of the data subject is required, to such data subjects in the Union; or
the monitoring of their behaviour as far as their behaviour takes place within the Union.
This Regulation applies to the processing of personal data by a controller not established in the Union, but in a place where Member State law applies by virtue of public international law.
1．本例适用于在欧盟内部设立的数据控制者或处理者对个人数据的处理，不论其实际数据处理行为是否在欧盟内进行。
2．本条例适用于如下相关活动中的个人数据处理，即使数据控制者或处理者不在欧盟设立：
(a)为欧盟内的数据主体提供商品或服务——不论此项商品或服务是否要求数据主体支付对价；或
(b)对发生在欧洲范围内的数据主体的活动进行监控。
3．本条例适用于在欧盟之外设立，但基于国际公法成员国的法律对其有管辖权的数据控制者的个人数据处理。
Article 4 Definitions / 第4条 定义
For the purposes of this Regulation:
‘personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person;
‘processing’ means any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction;
‘restriction of processing’ means the marking of stored personal data with the aim of limiting their processing in the future;
‘profiling’ means any form of automated processing of personal data consisting of the use of personal data to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person, in particular to analyse or predict aspects concerning that natural person’s performance at work, economic situation, health, personal preferences, interests, reliability, behaviour, location or movements;
‘pseudonymisation’ means the processing of personal data in such a manner that the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organisational measures to ensure that the personal data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person;
‘filing system’ means any structured set of personal data which are accessible according to specific criteria, whether centralised, decentralised or dispersed on a functional or geographical basis;
‘controller’ means the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data; where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by Union or Member State law;
‘processor’ means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller;
‘recipient’ means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another body, to which the personal data are disclosed, whether a third party or not. However, public authorities which may receive personal data in the framework of a particular inquiry in accordance with Union or Member State law shall not be regarded as recipients; the processing of those data by those public authorities shall be in compliance with the applicable data protection rules according to the purposes of the processing;
‘third party’ means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or body other than the data subject, controller, processor and persons who, under the direct authority of the controller or processor, are authorised to process personal data;
‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject’s wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or her;
‘personal data breach’ means a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed;
‘genetic data’ means personal data relating to the inherited or acquired genetic characteristics of a natural person which give unique information about the physiology or the health of that natural person and which result, in particular, from an analysis of a biological sample from the natural person in question;
‘biometric data’ means personal data resulting from specific technical processing relating to the physical, physiological or behavioural characteristics of a natural person, which allow or confirm the unique identification of that natural person, such as facial images or dactyloscopic data;
‘data concerning health’ means personal data related to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveal information about his or her health status;
‘main establishment’ means:
as regards a controller with establishments in more than one Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union, unless the decisions on the purposes and means of the processing of personal data are taken in another establishment of the controller in the Union and the latter establishment has the power to have such decisions implemented, in which case the establishment having taken such decisions is to be considered to be the main establishment;
as regards a processor with establishments in more than one Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union, or, if the processor has no central administration in the Union, the establishment of the processor in the Union where the main processing activities in the context of the activities of an establishment of the processor take place to the extent that the processor is subject to specific obligations under this Regulation;
‘representative’ means a natural or legal person established in the Union who, designated by the controller or processor in writing pursuant to Article 27, represents the controller or processor with regard to their respective obligations under this Regulation;
‘enterprise’ means a natural or legal person engaged in an economic activity, irrespective of its legal form, including partnerships or associations regularly engaged in an economic activity;
‘group of undertakings’ means a controlling undertaking and its controlled undertakings;
‘binding corporate rules’ means personal data protection policies which are adhered to by a controller or processor established on the territory of a Member State for transfers or a set of transfers of personal data to a controller or processor in one or more third countries within a group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity;
‘supervisory authority’ means an independent public authority which is established by a Member State pursuant to Article 51;
‘supervisory authority concerned’ means a supervisory authority which is concerned by the processing of personal data because:
the controller or processor is established on the territory of the Member State of that supervisory authority;
data subjects residing in the Member State of that supervisory authority are substantially affected or likely to be substantially affected by the processing; or
a complaint has been lodged with that supervisory authority;
‘cross-border processing’ means either:
processing of personal data which takes place in the context of the activities of establishments in more than one Member State of a controller or processor in the Union where the controller or processor is established in more than one Member State; or
processing of personal data which takes place in the context of the activities of a single establishment of a controller or processor in the Union but which substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State.
‘relevant and reasoned objection’ means an objection to a draft decision as to whether there is an infringement of this Regulation, or whether envisaged action in relation to the controller or processor complies with this Regulation, which clearly demonstrates the significance of the risks posed by the draft decision as regards the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects and, where applicable, the free flow of personal data within the Union;
‘information society service’ means a service as defined in point (b) of Article 1(1) of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council (19);
‘international organisation’ means an organisation and its subordinate bodies governed by public international law, or any other body which is set up by, or on the basis of, an agreement between two or more countries.
就本条例而言：
(1)“个人数据”指的是任何已识别或可识别的自然人（“数据主体”）相关的信息；一个可识别的自然人是一个能够被直接或间接识别的个体，特别是通过诸如姓名、身份编号、地址数据、网上标识或者自然人所特有的一项或多项的身体性、生理性、遗传性、精神性、经济性、文化性或社会性身份而识别个体。
(2)“处理”是指任何一项或多项针对单一个人数据或系列个人数据所进行的操作行为，不论该操作行为是否采取收集、记录、组织、构造、存储、调整、更改、检索、咨询、使用、通过传输而公开、散布或其他方式对他人公开、排列或组合、限制、删除或销毁而公开等自动化方式。
(3)“限制处理”是指对存储的个人数据进行标记，以限制此后对该数据的处理行为。
(4)“用户画像”指的是为了评估自然人的某些条件而对个人数据进行的任何自动化处理，特别是为了评估自然人的工作表现、经济状况、健康、个人偏好、兴趣、可靠性、行为方式、位置或行踪而进行的处理。
(5)“匿名化”指的是在采取某种方式对个人数据进行处理后，如果没有额外的信息就不能识别数据主体的处理方式。此类额外信息应当单独保存，并且已有技术与组织方式确保个人数据不能关联到某个已识别或可识别的自然人。
(6)“档案系统”指的是根据某种特定标准——不论这种标准是去中心化的、分散的、功能性的或是基于地理而设置的——而可以访问的个人数据的结构化集合。
(7)“控制者”指的是那些决定——不论是单独决定还是共同决定——个人数据处理目的与方式的自然人或法人、公共机构、规制机构或其他实体；如果此类处理的方式是由欧盟或成员国的法律决定的，那么对控制者的定义或确定控制者的标准应当由欧盟或成员国的法律来规定。
(8)“处理者”指的是为数据控制者而处理个人数据的自然人或法人、公共机构、规制机构或其他实体。
(9)“接收者”指的是接收数据的自然人、法人、公共机构、规制机构或另一实体，不论其是否为第三方。然而，公共机构基于欧盟或成员国法律的某项特定调查框架而接收个人数据，则不应当被视为接收者；公共机构对此类数据的处理，应当根据处理目的遵循可适用的数据保护规则。
(10)“第三方”指的是除了数据主体、控制者、处理者、控制者或处理者直接授权其处理个人数据之外的自然人或法人、公共机构、规制机构或组织。
(11)数据主体的“同意”指的是数据主体通过一个声明，或者通过某项清晰的确信行动而自由作出的、充分知悉的、不含混的、表明同意对其相关个人数据进行处理的意愿。
“个人数据泄露”是指由于违反安全政策而导致传输、储存、处理中的个人数据被意外或非法损毁、丢失、更改或未经同意而被公开或访问。
(13)“基因数据”指的是和自然人的遗传性或获得性基因特征相关的个人数据，这些数据可以提供自然人生理或健康的独特信息，尤其是通过对自然人生物性样本进行分析而可以得出的独特信息。
(14)“生物性识别数据”指的是基于特别技术处理自然人的相关身体、生理或行为特征而得出的个人数据，这种个人数据能够识别或确定自然人的独特标识，例如脸部形象或指纹数据。
(15)“和健康相关的数据”指的是那些和自然人的身体或精神健康相关的、显示其个人健康状况信息的个人数据，包括和卫生保健服务相关的服务。
(16)“主要营业机构”指的是：
(a)如果控制者在不止一个成员国内有多处营业机构，那么其在欧盟的管理中心所在地是主要营业机构，除非个人数据处理的目的与方式是由控制者的另一个机构决定的，并且这一机构有权实施此决定，在这种情况下，做出此类决定的机构应当被认为是主要营业机构；
(b)如果处理者在不止一个成员国内具有多处机构，那么其在欧盟的管理中心所在地是主要营业机构。如果处理者在欧盟没有管理中心，那么在处理者需要遵守本条例所规定的特殊责任的前提下，其在欧盟的主要处理活动发生地的机构应当被视为主要营业机构。
(17)“代表”指的是控制者或处理者根据第27条在欧盟书面委任，代表控制者或处理者承担本条例所规定的相应责任的自然人或法人。
(18)“经济主体”的含义是采用任意法律形式的进行经济活动的自然人或法人，包括经常进行经济活动的合伙企业或协会；
(19)“企业集团”的含义是控股企业和被控股企业；
(20)“有约束力的公司规则”指的是在某成员国内设立的控制者或处理者，为了在企业集团内部或进行联合经济活动的经济主体内部将个人数据转移或多次转移给位于第三国或多个第三国的控制者或处理者，所遵循的个人数据保护政策。
(21)“监管机构”指的是成员国根据第51条而设立的独立性公共机构。
(22)“相关监管机构”指的是基于如下原因而和个人数据处理相关的监管机构：
(a)控制者或处理者是在某监管机构所在的成员国的境内所设立的；
(b)数据处理对居住在某监管机构所在地成员国的数据主体具有实质性影响；或者
(c)该监管机构已经收到一项申诉；
(23)“跨境处理”指的是：
(a)个人数据处理发生在一个控制者或处理者在多个成员国所设立的多个营业机构内；或者
(b)个人数据处理是在欧盟内的控制者或处理者的单一营业机构内进行的，但其对不止一国的数据主体具有实质性影响。
(24)“相关和合理的异议”指的是对是否存在违反本条例的情形，或者某项和控制者或处理者相关的初步设想是否符合本条例的异议——已有证据表明，这种初步设想的决定会对数据主体的基本权利和自由，以及在某些情形下对欧盟的个人数据的自由流通会带来风险。
(25)“信息社会服务”指的是欧洲议会和欧盟理事会的(EU) 2015/1535指令在第1（1）条（b）点所定义的服务。
(26)“国际组织”指的是依照国际公法、或根据两个或多个国家协议所设立的组织及其下属机构。
1．本例适用于在欧盟内部设立的数据控制者或处理者对个人数据的处理，不论其实际数据处理行为是否在欧盟内进行。
2．本条例适用于如下相关活动中的个人数据处理，即使数据控制者或处理者不在欧盟设立：
(a)为欧盟内的数据主体提供商品或服务——不论此项商品或服务是否要求数据主体支付对价；或
(b)对发生在欧洲范围内的数据主体的活动进行监控。
3．本条例适用于在欧盟之外设立，但基于国际公法成员国的法律对其有管辖权的数据控制者的个人数据处理。
CHAPTER II Principles / 第二章 原则
Article 5 Principles relating to processing of personal data / 第5条 个人数据处理原则
Personal data shall be:
processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject (‘lawfulness, fairness and transparency’);
collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes; further processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall, in accordance with Article 89(1), not be considered to be incompatible with the initial purposes (‘purpose limitation’);
adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (‘data minimisation’);
accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; every reasonable step must be taken to ensure that personal data that are inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which they are processed, are erased or rectified without delay (‘accuracy’);
kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed; personal data may be stored for longer periods insofar as the personal data will be processed solely for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1) subject to implementation of the appropriate technical and organisational measures required by this Regulation in order to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject (‘storage limitation’);
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’).
The controller shall be responsible for, and be able to demonstrate compliance with, paragraph 1 (‘accountability’).
1．对于个人数据，应遵循下列规定：
(a)对涉及到数据主体的个人数据，应当以合法的、合理的和透明的方式来进行处理（“合法性、合理性和透明性”）；
(b)个人数据的收集应当具有具体的、清晰的和正当的目的，对个人数据的处理不应当违反初始目的。根据第89（1）条，因为公共利益、科学或历史研究或统计目的而进一步处理数据，不视为违反初始目的（“目的限制”）；
(c)个人数据的处理应当是为了实现数据处理目的而适当的、相关的和必要的（“数据最小化”）；
(d)个人数据应当是准确的，如有必要，必须及时更新；必须采取合理措施确保不准确的个人数据，即违反初始目的的个人数据，及时得到擦除或更正（“准确性”）；
(e)对于能够识别数据主体的个人数据，其储存时间不得超过实现其处理目的所必需的时间；超过此期限的数据处理只有在如下情况下才能被允许：为了实现公共利益、科学或历史研究目的或统计目的，为了保障数据主体的权利和自由，并采取了本条例第89（1）条所规定的合理技术与组织措施。（“限期储存”）；
处理过程中应确保个人数据的安全，采取合理的技术手段、组织措施，避免数据未经授权即被处理或遭到非法处理，避免数据发生意外毁损或灭失（“数据的完整性与保密性”）。
2．控制者有责任遵守以上第1段，并且有责任对此提供证明。（“可问责性”）。
Article 6 Lawfulness of processing / 第6条 处理的合法性
Processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following applies:
the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes;
processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;
processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person;
processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller;
processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular where the data subject is a child.
Point (f) of the first subparagraph shall not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in the performance of their tasks.
Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with regard to processing for compliance with points (c) and (e) of paragraph 1 by determining more precisely specific requirements for the processing and other measures to ensure lawful and fair processing including for other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX.
The basis for the processing referred to in point (c) and (e) of paragraph 1 shall be laid down by:
Union law; or
Member State law to which the controller is subject.
The purpose of the processing shall be determined in that legal basis or, as regards the processing referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1, shall be necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. That legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of rules of this Regulation, inter alia: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; the types of data which are subject to the processing; the data subjects concerned; the entities to, and the purposes for which, the personal data may be disclosed; the purpose limitation; storage periods; and processing operations and processing procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing such as those for other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX. The Union or the Member State law shall meet an objective of public interest and be proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued.
Where the processing for a purpose other than that for which the personal data have been collected is not based on the data subject’s consent or on a Union or Member State law which constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard the objectives referred to in Article 23(1), the controller shall, in order to ascertain whether processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which the personal data are initially collected, take into account, inter alia:
any link between the purposes for which the personal data have been collected and the purposes of the intended further processing;
the context in which the personal data have been collected, in particular regarding the relationship between data subjects and the controller;
the nature of the personal data, in particular whether special categories of personal data are processed, pursuant to Article 9, or whether personal data related to criminal convictions and offences are processed, pursuant to Article 10;
the possible consequences of the intended further processing for data subjects;
the existence of appropriate safeguards, which may include encryption or pseudonymisation.
1．只有满足至少如下一项条件时，处理才是合法的，且处理的合法性只限于满足条件内的处理：
(a)数据主体已经同意基于一项或多项目的而对其个人数据进行处理；
(b)处理对于完成某项数据主体所参与的契约是必要的，或者在签订契约前基于数据主体的请求而进行的处理；
处理是控制商履行其法定义务所必需的；
(d)处理对于保护数据主体或另一个自然人的核心利益所必要的；
(e)处理是数据控制者为了公共利益或基于官方权威而履行某项任务而进行的；
(f)处理对于控制者或第三方所追求的正当利益是必要的，这不包括需要通过个人数据保护以实现数据主体的优先性利益或基本权利与自由，特别是儿童的优先性利益或基本权利与自由。
第1段（f）点不适用公共机构在履行其任务时的处理。
2．对于第1段（c）和（e）所规定的处理，成员国可以维持或新制定更多具体条款，以适应本条例规则的适用，成员国为了确保合法与合理处理，可以制定更为明确的规定，包括第9章所规定的其他特定的处理情形。
3．第1段（c）和（e）所规定的处理的基准应当通过如下法律进行规定：
(a)欧盟法；或者
(b)控制者所属的成员国的法律。
处理的目的应当在此法律基准上进行确定，而对于第1段（e）所规定的处理，处理的目的应当是控制者为了公共利益或基于官方权威而履行某项任务。此法律基准可以包含如下特定条款，以适应对本条例规则的适用：对控制者处理的合法性进行监控的一般条件；可以被处理的数据类型；相关数据主体；个人数据公开的目的，以及其可能被公开给的对象；目的限定；储存期限；包括第9章所规定的其他特定的处理情形在内的处理操作和处理程序。欧盟或成员国的法律应当满足公共利益的目标，且应当与实现正当目的成比例。
4．若处理是出于收集个人数据以外的其他目的，如果该目的未经数据主体同意或并非是基于联盟或成员国的法律（在一个民主社会中，若要实现第23（1）条中的目的，法律是必要且合适的），那么为确保该目的与初始目相容，控制商应当考虑以下因素，但不限于以下因素：
(a)个人数据收集时的目的与计划进一步处理的目的之间的所有关联性；
(b)个人数据收集时的语境，特别是数据主体与控制者之间的关系；
(c)个人数据的性质，特别是某些特定类型的个人数据是否符合第9条的规定，或者与刑事定罪和刑事违法相关的个人数据是否符合第10条的规定；
数据主体计划进一步处理可能造成的结果；
(e)是否具有加密与匿名化措施等恰当保护措施；
Article 7 Conditions for consent / 第7条 同意的条件
Where processing is based on consent, the controller shall be able to demonstrate that the data subject has consented to processing of his or her personal data.
If the data subject’s consent is given in the context of a written declaration which also concerns other matters, the request for consent shall be presented in a manner which is clearly distinguishable from the other matters, in an intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language. Any part of such a declaration which constitutes an infringement of this Regulation shall not be binding.
The data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her consent at any time. The withdrawal of consent shall not affect the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal. Prior to giving consent, the data subject shall be informed thereof. It shall be as easy to withdraw as to give consent.
When assessing whether consent is freely given, utmost account shall be taken of whether, inter alia, the performance of a contract, including the provision of a service, is conditional on consent to the processing of personal data that is not necessary for the performance of that contract.
1．当处理是建立在同意基础上的，控制者需要能证明，数据主体已经同意对其个人数据进行处理。
2．如果数据主体的同意是在涉及到其他事项的书面声明的情形下作出的，请求获得同意应当完全区别于其他事项，并且应当以一种容易理解的形式，使用清晰和平白的语言。任何违反本条例的声明都不具有约束力。
3．数据主体应当有权随时撤回其同意。在撤回之前，对于基于同意的处理，其合法性不受影响。在数据主体表达同意之前，数据主体应当被告知这点。撤回同意应当和表达同意一样简单。
4．分析同意是否是自由做出的，应当最大限度地考虑一点是：对契约的履行——包括履行条款所规定的服务——是否要求同意履行契约所不必要的个人数据处理。
Article 8 Conditions applicable to child’s consent in relation to information society services / 第8条 信息社会服务中适用儿童同意的条件
Where point (a) of Article 6(1) applies, in relation to the offer of information society services directly to a child, the processing of the personal data of a child shall be lawful where the child is at least 16 years old. Where the child is below the age of 16 years, such processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that consent is given or authorised by the holder of parental responsibility over the child.
Member States may provide by law for a lower age for those purposes provided that such lower age is not below 13 years.
The controller shall make reasonable efforts to verify in such cases that consent is given or authorised by the holder of parental responsibility over the child, taking into consideration available technology.
Paragraph 1 shall not affect the general contract law of Member States such as the rules on the validity, formation or effect of a contract in relation to a child.
1．在第6（1）条（a）适用的情形下，对于为儿童直接提供信息社会服务的请求，当儿童年满16周岁，对儿童个人数据的处理是合法的。当儿童不满16周岁，只有当对儿童具有父母监护责任的主体同意或授权，此类处理才是合法的。
2．对于年满13周岁的情形，成员国的法律可以降低年龄要求。
3．控制者应当采取合理的努力，结合技术可行性，确保此类情形中对儿童具有父母监护责任的主体已经授权或同意。
第1段不应影响成员国的一般合同法，例如关于儿童的合同有效性、形成与效力的规则。
Article 9 Processing of special categories of personal data / 第9条 对特殊类型个人数据的处理
Processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person’s sex life or sexual orientation shall be prohibited.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply if one of the following applies:
the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of those personal data for one or more specified purposes, except where Union or Member State law provide that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 may not be lifted by the data subject;
processing is necessary for the purposes of carrying out the obligations and exercising specific rights of the controller or of the data subject in the field of employment and social security and social protection law in so far as it is authorised by Union or Member State law or a collective agreement pursuant to Member State law providing for appropriate safeguards for the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject;
processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent;
processing is carried out in the course of its legitimate activities with appropriate safeguards by a foundation, association or any other not-for-profit body with a political, philosophical, religious or trade union aim and on condition that the processing relates solely to the members or to former members of the body or to persons who have regular contact with it in connection with its purposes and that the personal data are not disclosed outside that body without the consent of the data subjects;
processing relates to personal data which are manifestly made public by the data subject;
processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims or whenever courts are acting in their judicial capacity;
processing is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest, on the basis of Union or Member State law which shall be proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject;
processing is necessary for the purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, for the assessment of the working capacity of the employee, medical diagnosis, the provision of health or social care or treatment or the management of health or social care systems and services on the basis of Union or Member State law or pursuant to contract with a health professional and subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in paragraph 3;
processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in the area of public health, such as protecting against serious cross-border threats to health or ensuring high standards of quality and safety of health care and of medicinal products or medical devices, on the basis of Union or Member State law which provides for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject, in particular professional secrecy;
processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1) based on Union or Member State law which shall be proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject.
Personal data referred to in paragraph 1 may be processed for the purposes referred to in point (h) of paragraph 2 when those data are processed by or under the responsibility of a professional subject to the obligation of professional secrecy under Union or Member State law or rules established by national competent bodies or by another person also subject to an obligation of secrecy under Union or Member State law or rules established by national competent bodies.
Member States may maintain or introduce further conditions, including limitations, with regard to the processing of genetic data, biometric data or data concerning health.
1．对于那些显示种族或民族背景、政治观念、宗教或哲学信仰或工会成员的个人数据、基因数据、为了特定识别自然人的生物性识别数据、以及和自然人健康、个人性生活或性取向相关的数据，应当禁止处理。
2．如果具有如下条件之一，第1段将不适用：
(a)数据主体明确同意基于一个或多个特定目的而授权处理其个人数据，但依照欧盟或成员国的法律规定，数据主体无权解除第1段中所规定的禁令的除外；
(b)处理对于控制者履行责任以及行使其特定权利是必要的，或者对于在雇佣、社会安全与社会保障法领域采取符合欧盟或成员国法律或集体协议的措施以保护数据主体的根本权利和利益是必要的；
(c)数据主体因为身体原因或法律原因而无法表达同意，但处理对于保护数据主体或另一自然人的核心利益却是必要的；
(d)基金、协会或其它具有政治、哲学、宗教或工会目的的非盈利机构的正当性活动中所进行的处理，并且已经采取了恰当的保护措施；或者处理目的仅仅和机构成员、之前成员或具有经常联系的人相关，并且个人数据在未经数据主体同意前不对实体外的人公开；
(e)对数据主体已经明显公开的相关个人数据的处理；
(f)当处理对于提起、行使或辩护法律性主张必要时，或者法院在其所有的司法活动中所进行的处理；
(g)处理对实现实质性的公共利益必要的，建立在欧盟或成员国的法律基准之上、对实现目标是相称的，尊重数据保护权的核心要素，并且为数据主体的基本权利和利益提供合适和特定的保护措施；
(h)处理对于预防性医学或临床医学目的是必要的，或者对于评估雇员的工作能力、医疗诊断、提供——基于欧盟或成员国法律，或遵循和健康职业机构签订的契约并遵循第3段所规定的情形与保障措施——健康或社会保健或治疗或管理健康或社会保健体系是必要的；
(i)在公共健康领域，处理是为了实现公共利益所必要的，例如，在欧盟或成员国内已经为保障数据主体的权利与自由而采取合适与特定措施的法律基础上，处理对于预防严重的跨境健康威胁是必要的，或者为了保障医疗质量和安全、医疗产品或医疗设备的高质量和安全是必要的；或者
(j)处理对于实现符合第89(1)条公共利益、科学或历史研究目的或统计目的是必要的，处理采取了与其期望目的所相称的处理，尊重数据保护权的核心要素，并且对数据主体的基本权利与利益采取了合适与特定的措施。
3．根据欧盟或成员国的有权机构所制定的法律或规则而具有保守职业性秘密责任的职业主体，或者根据欧盟或成员国的有权机构所制定的法律或规则而具有保守秘密责任的自然人，可以为了第2段（h）点所规定的目的而处理第1段所规定的个人数据。
4．对于基因数据、生物性识别数据或健康相关数据的处理，成员国可以维持原有规定，或者作出新的规定，包括对处理基因数据、生物性识别数据或健康相关数据进行限定。
Article 10 Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences / 第10条 处理涉及犯罪定罪与违法的个人数据
Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences or related security measures based on Article 6(1) shall be carried out only under the control of official authority or when the processing is authorised by Union or Member State law providing for appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects. Any comprehensive register of criminal convictions shall be kept only under the control of official authority.
处理和犯罪定罪与违法相关的个人数据，或处理第6（1）条规定的与安全措施相关的个人数据，只有如下情形才能被允许：当个人数据处理为官方机构控制，或者当欧盟或成员国的法律授权进行处理，并且采取了恰当的措施保障数据主体的权利与自由。任何犯罪定罪的全面性登记只能由官方机构进行。
Article 11 Processing which does not require identification / 第11条 不需要识别的处理
If the purposes for which a controller processes personal data do not or do no longer require the identification of a data subject by the controller, the controller shall not be obliged to maintain, acquire or process additional information in order to identify the data subject for the sole purpose of complying with this Regulation.
Where, in cases referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the controller is able to demonstrate that it is not in a position to identify the data subject, the controller shall inform the data subject accordingly, if possible. In such cases, Articles 15 to 20 shall not apply except where the data subject, for the purpose of exercising his or her rights under those articles, provides additional information enabling his or her identification.
1．如果控制者处理个人数据的目的不需要或不再需要控制者对数据主体进行识别，控制者就不再具有为了遵循本条例而维持、获取或处理额外信息以识别数据主体的责任。
2．对于第1段所规定的情形，如果控制者能够证明其不适合识别数据主体，如有可能，数据控制者应当告知数据主体。在此类情形下，除非数据主体为了行使第15至20条所规定的权利，需要提供额外信息而使得对其识别变得可能，第15至20条将不应适用。
CHAPTER III Rights of the data subject / 第三章 数据主体的权利
Section 1 Transparency and modalities / 第一部分 透明性与模式
Article 12 Transparent information, communication and modalities for the exercise of the rights of the data subject / 第12条 信息、交流与模式的透明性——保证数据主体权利的行使
The controller shall take appropriate measures to provide any information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and any communication under Articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing to the data subject in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language, in particular for any information addressed specifically to a child. The information shall be provided in writing, or by other means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. When requested by the data subject, the information may be provided orally, provided that the identity of the data subject is proven by other means.
The controller shall facilitate the exercise of data subject rights under Articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in Article 11(2), the controller shall not refuse to act on the request of the data subject for exercising his or her rights under Articles 15 to 22, unless the controller demonstrates that it is not in a position to identify the data subject.
The controller shall provide information on action taken on a request under Articles 15 to 22 to the data subject without undue delay and in any event within one month of receipt of the request. That period may be extended by two further months where necessary, taking into account the complexity and number of the requests. The controller shall inform the data subject of any such extension within one month of receipt of the request, together with the reasons for the delay. Where the data subject makes the request by electronic form means, the information shall be provided by electronic means where possible, unless otherwise requested by the data subject.
If the controller does not take action on the request of the data subject, the controller shall inform the data subject without delay and at the latest within one month of receipt of the request of the reasons for not taking action and on the possibility of lodging a complaint with a supervisory authority and seeking a judicial remedy.
Information provided under Articles 13 and 14 and any communication and any actions taken under Articles 15 to 22 and 34 shall be provided free of charge. Where requests from a data subject are manifestly unfounded or excessive, in particular because of their repetitive character, the controller may either:
charge a reasonable fee taking into account the administrative costs of providing the information or communication or taking the action requested; or
refuse to act on the request.
The controller shall bear the burden of demonstrating the manifestly unfounded or excessive character of the request.
Without prejudice to Article 11, where the controller has reasonable doubts concerning the identity of the natural person making the request referred to in Articles 15 to 21, the controller may request the provision of additional information necessary to confirm the identity of the data subject.
The information to be provided to data subjects pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 may be provided in combination with standardised icons in order to give in an easily visible, intelligible and clearly legible manner a meaningful overview of the intended processing. Where the icons are presented electronically they shall be machine-readable.
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 92 for the purpose of determining the information to be presented by the icons and the procedures for providing standardised icons.
1．对于和个人信息处理相关的第13和第14条规定的所有信息、或者第15条至22条以及34条所规定的所有交流，控制者应当以一种简洁、透明、易懂和容易获取的形式，以清晰和平白的语言来提供；对于针对儿童的所有信息，尤其应当如此。信息应当以书面形式或其他形式提供，包括在合适的情况下通过电子方式提供。若数据主体的身份可通过其他途径得到证实，那么控制者可依主体申请以口头方式提供相关信息。
2．控制者应当对数据主体行使第15至22条的权利而提供帮助。对于第11（2）条所规定的情形，当数据主体请求其行使第15至22条的权利，控制者不应拒绝，除非控制者能够证明其并不适宜识别数据主体。
3．在数据主体根据第15至22条的规定提出请求后，控制者应当提供信息，不应无故拖延，在任何情形下应当在收到请求后一个月内提供信息。在必要的情形下，考虑到请求的复杂性和多样性，这个期限可以再延长两个月。如果有此类延长，控制者应当在收到请求的一个月内将此类延长以及延长原因告知数据主体。当数据主体以电子形式做出请求，在可行的情况下，对信息的提供也应当以电子形式提供，除非数据主体有不同请求。
4．如果控制者没有采取相应的行动对数据主体的请求做出回应，那么应当及时告知该数据主体其在收到请求后一个月内未能采取行动的具体原因，同时可向监管机构提出申诉，寻求司法救济。
5．第13和第14条所规定的信息以及第15至22条和34条所规定的所有交流与行为都应当是免费的。当数据主体的请求明显不具备正当理由或超过必要限度，特别是当请求是重复性的时候，控制者可以：
(a)结合提供信息、交流或相应行动的行政花费，收取一定的合理费用；或者
(b)拒绝对请求作出行动。
控制者有责任证明数据主体的请求明显是毫无根据的或过分的。
6．在不影响第11条的前提下，控制者可以对第15至21条中提出要求的自然人的身份有合理怀疑，要求数据主体提供必要的额外信息以确认数据主体的身份。
7．根据第13条和14条提供给数据主体的信息可以和标准化的图标一起提供，以便于数据主体以一种一目了然的、易懂的和清晰的方式对计划的数据处理有全盘理解。当图标以电子化的方式提供，它们必须是机器可读的。
8．对于确定图标所提供的信息以及提供标准化图标的程序，欧盟理事会将有权根据第92条制定授权行动。
Section 2 Information and access to personal data / 第二部分 信息与对个人数据的访问
Article 13 Information to be provided where personal data are collected from the data subject / 第13条 收集数据主体个人数据时应当提供的信息
Where personal data relating to a data subject are collected from the data subject, the controller shall, at the time when personal data are obtained, provide the data subject with all of the following information:
the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the controller’s representative;
the contact details of the data protection officer, where applicable;
the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal basis for the processing;
where the processing is based on point (f) of Article 6(1), the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party;
the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
where applicable, the fact that the controller intends to transfer personal data to a third country or international organisation and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or in the case of transfers referred to in Article 46 or 47, or the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), reference to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means by which to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made available.
In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall, at the time when personal data are obtained, provide the data subject with the following further information necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing:
the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;
the existence of the right to request from the controller access to and rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing concerning the data subject or to object to processing as well as the right to data portability;
where the processing is based on point (a) of Article 6(1) or point (a) of Article 9(2), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal;
the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
whether the provision of personal data is a statutory or contractual requirement, or a requirement necessary to enter into a contract, as well as whether the data subject is obliged to provide the personal data and of the possible consequences of failure to provide such data;
the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.
Where the controller intends to further process the personal data for a purpose other than that for which the personal data were collected, the controller shall provide the data subject prior to that further processing with information on that other purpose and with any relevant further information as referred to in paragraph 2.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply where and insofar as the data subject already has the information.
1．当收集和数据主体相关的个人数据时，控制者应当为数据主体提供如下信息：
(a)控制者的身份与详细联系方式，以及如果适用的话，控制者的代表；
(b)数据保护官的详细联系方式，如果适用的话；
(c)处理将要涉及到的个人数据的目的，以及处理的法律基础；
(d)当处理是基于（f）点或第6（1）条的时候，控制者或第三方的正当利益；
(e)个人数据的接收者或者接收者的类型，如果有的话；
(f)如果适用的话，控制者期望将数据转移到第三国或国际组织的事实、欧盟委员会作出或未作出充分决定的事实，或者，在第46或47条或者第49（1）条的第二小段所规定的转移情形中，所采取的适当保障措施的参考资料、获取它们备份的方式，或者在那里可以获取它们。
2．除了第1段所规定的信息，控制者应当在获取个人数据时为数据主体提供确保合理与透明处理所必要的进一步信息：
(a)个人数据将被储存的期限，以及确定此期限的标准；
(b)数据主体所拥有的权利：可以要求控制者提供对个人数据的访问、更正或擦除，或者限制或反对相关处理的权利；数据携带权；
(c)当处理是根据第6（1）条或第9（2）条的（a）点而进行的，数据主体拥有可以随时撤回——这种撤回不会影响撤回之前根据同意而进行处理的合法性——同意的权利；
(d)向监管机构进行申诉的权利；
(e)提供个人数据是一项制定法还是合同法的要求，是否对于缔结一项契约是必要的，数据主体是否有责任提供个人数据，以及没有提供此类数据会造成的可能后果。
(f)存在自动化的决策，包括第22（1）和（4）条所规定的用户画像，以及在此类情形下，对于相关逻辑、包括此类处理对于数据主体的预期后果的有效信息。
3．若控制者进一步处理个人信息的目的与收集个人信息的目的不一致，那么，控制者应当在进一步处理之前向数据主体提供此类目的的信息，以及提供第2段所规定的相关进一步信息。
4．在数据主体已经拥有信息的情况下，第1，2，3段不应当适用。
Article 14 Information to be provided where personal data have not been obtained from the data subject / 第14条 未获得数据主体个人数据的情形下，应当提供的信息
Where personal data have not been obtained from the data subject, the controller shall provide the data subject with the following information:
the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the controller’s representative;
the contact details of the data protection officer, where applicable;
the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal basis for the processing;
the categories of personal data concerned;
the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
where applicable, that the controller intends to transfer personal data to a recipient in a third country or international organisation and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or in the case of transfers referred to in Article 46 or 47, or the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), reference to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made available.
In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall provide the data subject with the following information necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing in respect of the data subject:
the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;
where the processing is based on point (f) of Article 6(1), the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party;
the existence of the right to request from the controller access to and rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing concerning the data subject and to object to processing as well as the right to data portability;
where processing is based on point (a) of Article 6(1) or point (a) of Article 9(2), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal;
the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
from which source the personal data originate, and if applicable, whether it came from publicly accessible sources;
the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.
The controller shall provide the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2:
within a reasonable period after obtaining the personal data, but at the latest within one month, having regard to the specific circumstances in which the personal data are processed;
if the personal data are to be used for communication with the data subject, at the latest at the time of the first communication to that data subject; or
if a disclosure to another recipient is envisaged, at the latest when the personal data are first disclosed.
Where the controller intends to further process the personal data for a purpose other than that for which the personal data were obtained, the controller shall provide the data subject prior to that further processing with information on that other purpose and with any relevant further information as referred to in paragraph 2.
Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall not apply where and insofar as:
the data subject already has the information;
the provision of such information proves impossible or would involve a disproportionate effort, in particular for processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in Article 89(1) or in so far as the obligation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of the objectives of that processing. In such cases the controller shall take appropriate measures to protect the data subject’s rights and freedoms and legitimate interests, including making the information publicly available;
obtaining or disclosure is expressly laid down by Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject and which provides appropriate measures to protect the data subject’s legitimate interests; or
where the personal data must remain confidential subject to an obligation of professional secrecy regulated by Union or Member State law, including a statutory obligation of secrecy.
1．当个人数据还没有从数据主体那里收集，控制者应当向数据主体提供如下信息：
(a)控制者的身份与详细联系方式，以及如果适用的话，控制者的代表；
(b)如果适用的话，数据保护官的详细联系方式；
(c)处理将要涉及到的个人数据的目的，以及处理的法律基础；
(d)相关个人数据的类型；
(e)个人数据的接收者或者接收者的类型，如果有的话；
(f)如果适用的话，控制者期望将数据转移到第三国或国际组织、欧盟委员会作出或未作出的充足保护的认定，或者，在第46或47条或者第49（1）条的第二小段所规定的转移情形中，所采取的适当保障措施的参考资料、获取它们备份的方式，或者在那里可以获取它们。
2．除了第1段所规定的信息，控制者应当向数据主体提供如下确保涉及到数据主体的处理是合理与透明的必要信息：
(a)个人数据将被储存的期限，或者如果不可能的话，用来确定此期限的标准；
(b)当处理是根据第6（1）条（f）点而进行的，控制者或第三方所追求的正当利益；
(c)数据主体存在如下权利，可以要求控制者提供对个人数据的访问、更正或擦除，或者限制或反对相关处理，数据携带权；
(d)当处理是根据第6（1）条或第9（2）条的（a）点而进行的，数据主体拥有可以随时撤回——这种撤回不会影响撤回之前根据同意而进行处理的合法性——同意的权利；
(e)向监管机构进行申诉的权利；
(f)个人数据的来源，以及如果适用的话，其来源是否可以是公开性的资源；
(g)存在自动化的决策，包括第22（1）和（4）条所规定的用户画像，以及在此类情形下，对于相关逻辑、包括此类处理对于数据主体的预期后果的有效信息。
3．控制者应当按如下方式提供第1段和第2段所规定的信息：
(a)应当在获得个人数据后的一段合理期限内提供信息，如果考虑到个人数据处理的特定情形，应当至少在一个月以内；
(b)如果个人数据是被用来和数据主体进行沟通的，最晚应当在其和数据主体进行第一次沟通时提供信息；
(c)如果个人数据将被计划披露给另一个接收者，那么最晚应当在个人数据被第一次披露时提供信息。
4．当控制者因为与收集个人信息时不一致的目的进一步处理个人信息，控制者应当在进一步处理之前向数据主体提供此类目的的信息，以及提供第2段所规定的相关进一步信息。
5．在如下情形中，第1至4段不适用：
(a)数据主体已经拥有信息；
(b)此类信息的提供是不可能的，或者说需要付出某种不相称的工作，在如下情形中尤其不适用：为了实现公共利益、科学或历史研究目的或统计目的，为了保障数据主体的权利和自由，并采取了本条例第89（1）条所规定的合理技术与组织措施；或者本条第1段所规定的责任会严重妨碍实现处理的目标。在此类情形中，控制者应当采取恰当的措施保护数据主体的权利与自由与正当利益，包括使得信息可以公开获取；
(c)欧盟或成员国为控制者特别制定了获取或公开信息的法律，并且已经对保护数据主体的正当利益制定了恰当的措施；
(d)当个人数据必须保密，必须遵守欧盟或成员国法律所规定的职业秘密责任，包括制定法上的保守秘密责任。
Article 15 Right of access by the data subject / 第15条 数据主体的访问权
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and the following information:
the purposes of the processing;
the categories of personal data concerned;
the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or international organisations;
where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;
the existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject or to object to such processing;
the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
where the personal data are not collected from the data subject, any available information as to their source;
the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.
Where personal data are transferred to a third country or to an international organisation, the data subject shall have the right to be informed of the appropriate safeguards pursuant to Article 46 relating to the transfer.
The controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. For any further copies requested by the data subject, the controller may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. Where the data subject makes the request by electronic means, and unless otherwise requested by the data subject, the information shall be provided in a commonly used electronic form.
The right to obtain a copy referred to in paragraph 3 shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.
1．数据主体应当有权从控制者那里得知，关于其的个人数据是否正在被处理，如果正在被处理的话，其应当有权访问个人数据和获知如下信息：
(a)处理的目的；
(b)相关个人数据的类型；
(c)个人数据已经被或将被披露给接收者或接收者的类型，特别是当接收者属于第三国或国际组织时；
(d)在可能的情形下，个人数据将被储存的预期期限，或者如果不可能的话，确定此期限的标准；
(e)数据主体要求控制者纠正或擦除个人数据、限制或反对对数据主体相关的个人数据进行处理的权利；
(f)向监管机构进行申诉的权利；
(g)当个人数据不是从数据主体那里收集的，关于来源的任何信息；
(h)存在自动化的决策，包括第22（1）和（4）条所规定的数据分析，以及在此类情形下，对于相关逻辑、包括此类处理对于数据主体的预期后果的有效信息。
2．当个人数据被转移到第三国或一个国际组织，数据主体应当有权获知和转移相关的符合第46条的恰当的保障措施。
3．控制者应当对进行处理的个人数据提供一份备份。对于任何数据主体所要求的额外备份，控制者可以根据管理花费而收取合理的费用。当数据主体通过电子方式而请求，且除非数据主体有其他请求，信息应当以通常使用的电子形式提供。
4．获取第三段中所规定的备份的权利不应当对他人的权利与自由产生负面影响。
Section 3 Rectification and erasure / 第三部分 更正与擦除
Article 16 Right to rectification / 第16条 更正权
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller without undue delay the rectification of inaccurate personal data concerning him or her. Taking into account the purposes of the processing, the data subject shall have the right to have incomplete personal data completed, including by means of providing a supplementary statement.
数据主体应当有权从控制者那里及时得知对与其相关的不正确信息的更正。在考虑处理目的的前提下，数据主体应当有权完善不充分的个人数据，包括通过提供额外声明的方式来进行完善。
Article 17 Right to erasure (‘right to be forgotten’) / 第17条 擦除权（“被遗忘权”）
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the erasure of personal data concerning him or her without undue delay and the controller shall have the obligation to erase personal data without undue delay where one of the following grounds applies:
the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they were collected or otherwise processed;
the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based according to point (a) of Article 6(1), or point (a) of Article 9(2), and where there is no other legal ground for the processing;
the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2);
the personal data have been unlawfully processed;
the personal data have to be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject;
the personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of information society services referred to in Article 8(1).
Where the controller has made the personal data public and is obliged pursuant to paragraph 1 to erase the personal data, the controller, taking account of available technology and the cost of implementation, shall take reasonable steps, including technical measures, to inform controllers which are processing the personal data that the data subject has requested the erasure by such controllers of any links to, or copy or replication of, those personal data.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the extent that processing is necessary:
for exercising the right of freedom of expression and information;
for compliance with a legal obligation which requires processing by Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject or for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller;
for reasons of public interest in the area of public health in accordance with points (h) and (i) of Article 9(2) as well as Article 9(3);
for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1) in so far as the right referred to in paragraph 1 is likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of the objectives of that processing; or
for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.
1．数据主体有权要求控制者擦除关于其个人数据的权利，当具有如下情形之一时，控制者有责任及时擦除个人数据：
(a)个人数据对于实现其被收集或处理的相关目的不再必要；
(b)处理是根据第6（1）条（a）点，或者第9（2）条（a）点而进行的，并且没有处理的其他法律根据，数据主体撤回在此类处理中的同意；
(c)数据主体反对根据第21（1）条进行的处理，并且没有压倒性的正当理由可以进行处理，或者数据主体反对根据第21（2）条进行的处理；
(d)已经存在非法的个人数据处理；
(e)为了履行欧盟或成员国法律为控制者所设定的法律责任，个人数据需要被擦除；
(f)已经收集了第8（1）条所规定的和提供信息社会服务相关的个人人数据。
2．当控制者已经公开个人数据，并且负有第1段所规定的擦除个人数据的责任，控制者应当考虑可行技术与执行成本，采取包括技术措施在内的合理措施告知正在处理个人数据的控制者们，数据主体已经要求他们擦除那些和个人数据相关的链接、备份或复制。
3．当处理对于如下目的是必要的，第1和第2段将不适用：
(a)为了行使表达自由和信息自由的权利；
(b)控制者执行或者为了执行基于公共利益的某项任务，或者基于被授予的官方权威而履行某项任务，欧盟或成员国的法律要求进行处理，以便履行其法律职责；
(c)为了实现公共健康领域符合第9（2）条（h）和（i）点以及第9（3）条的公共利益而进行的处理；
(d)如果第1段所提到权利会受严重影响，或者会彻底阻碍实现第89(1)条的公共利益目的、科学或历史研究目的或统计目的；或者
(e)为了提起、行使或辩护法律性主张。
Article 18 Right to restriction of processing / 第18条 限制处理权
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller restriction of processing where one of the following applies:
the accuracy of the personal data is contested by the data subject, for a period enabling the controller to verify the accuracy of the personal data;
the processing is unlawful and the data subject opposes the erasure of the personal data and requests the restriction of their use instead;
the controller no longer needs the personal data for the purposes of the processing, but they are required by the data subject for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims;
the data subject has objected to processing pursuant to Article 21(1) pending the verification whether the legitimate grounds of the controller override those of the data subject.
Where processing has been restricted under paragraph 1, such personal data shall, with the exception of storage, only be processed with the data subject’s consent or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims or for the protection of the rights of another natural or legal person or for reasons of important public interest of the Union or of a Member State.
A data subject who has obtained restriction of processing pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be informed by the controller before the restriction of processing is lifted.
1．当存在如下情形之一时，数据主体有权要求控制者对处理进行限制：
(a)数据主体对个人数据的准确性有争议，并给与控制者以一定的期限以核实个人数据的准确性；
(b)处理是非法的，并且数据主体反对擦除个人数据，要求对使用其个人数据进行限制；
(c)控制者不再需要个人数据以实现其处理的目的，但数据主体为了提起、行使或辩护法律性主张而需要该个人数据；
(d)数据主体根据第21（1）条的规定而反对处理，因其需要确定控制者的正当理由是否优先于数据主体的正当理由。
2．当处理受第1段的规定所限制，除了储存的情形，此类个人数据只有在如下情形中才能进行处理：获取了数据主体的同意，或者为了提起、行使或辩护法律性主张，或者为了保护另一个自然人或法人的权利，或者为了欧盟或某个成员国的重要公共利益。
3．那些根据第1段规定已经获取了对处理进行限制的数据主体，在限制被解除前，控制者应当告知数据主体。
Article 19 Notification obligation regarding rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing / 第19条 关于更正或擦除或限制处理中的通知责任
The controller shall communicate any rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing carried out in accordance with Article 16, Article 17(1) and Article 18 to each recipient to whom the personal data have been disclosed, unless this proves impossible or involves disproportionate effort. The controller shall inform the data subject about those recipients if the data subject requests it.
对于所有根据第16、17（1）、18条而限制或擦除个人数据，或限制处理个人数据，控制者都应当将其告知个人数据已经被披露给的每个接收者——除非此类告知是不可能的，或者需要付出不相称的工作。如果数据主体提出要求，控制者应当将关于接收者的情形告知数据主体。
Article 20 Right to data portability / 第20条 数据携带权
The data subject shall have the right to receive the personal data concerning him or her, which he or she has provided to a controller, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format and have the right to transmit those data to another controller without hindrance from the controller to which the personal data have been provided, where:
the processing is based on consent pursuant to point (a) of Article 6(1) or point (a) of Article 9(2) or on a contract pursuant to point (b) of Article 6(1); and
the processing is carried out by automated means.
In exercising his or her right to data portability pursuant to paragraph 1, the data subject shall have the right to have the personal data transmitted directly from one controller to another, where technically feasible.
The exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be without prejudice to Article 17. That right shall not apply to processing necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller.
The right referred to in paragraph 1 shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.
1．当存在如下情形时，数据主体有权获得其提供给控制者的相关个人数据，且其获得个人数据应当是经过整理的、普遍使用的和机器可读的，数据主体有权无障碍地将此类数据从其提供给的控制者那里传输给给另一个控制者：
(a)处理是建立在第6（1）条（a）点或9（2）条（a）点所规定的同意，或者6（1）条所规定的合同的基础上的；
(b)处理是通过自动化方式的。
2．在行使第1段所规定的携带权时，如果技术可行，数据主体应当有权将个人数据直接从一个控制者传输到另一个控制者。
3．行使第1段所规定的权利，不能影响第17条的规定。对于控制者为了公共利益，或者为了行使其被授权的官方权威而进行的必要处理，这种权利不适用。
4．第1段所规定的权利不能对他人的权利或自由产生负面影响。
Section 4 Right to object and automated individual decision-making / 第四部分 反对的权利和自动化的个人决策
Article 21 Right to object / 第21条 反对权
The data subject shall have the right to object, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, at any time to processing of personal data concerning him or her which is based on point (e) or (f) of Article 6(1), including profiling based on those provisions. The controller shall no longer process the personal data unless the controller demonstrates compelling legitimate grounds for the processing which override the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.
Where personal data are processed for direct marketing purposes, the data subject shall have the right to object at any time to processing of personal data concerning him or her for such marketing, which includes profiling to the extent that it is related to such direct marketing.
Where the data subject objects to processing for direct marketing purposes, the personal data shall no longer be processed for such purposes.
At the latest at the time of the first communication with the data subject, the right referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be explicitly brought to the attention of the data subject and shall be presented clearly and separately from any other information.
In the context of the use of information society services, and notwithstanding Directive 2002/58/EC, the data subject may exercise his or her right to object by automated means using technical specifications.
Where personal data are processed for scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes pursuant to Article 89(1), the data subject, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, shall have the right to object to processing of personal data concerning him or her, unless the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out for reasons of public interest.
1．对于根据第6（1）条（e）或（f）点而进行的关乎数据主体的数据处理，包括根据这些条款而进行的用户画像，数据主体应当有权随时反对。此时，控制者须立即停止针对这部分个人数据的处理行为，除非控制者证明，相比数据主体的利益、权利和自由，具有压倒性的正当理由需要进行处理，或者处理是为了提起、行使或辩护法律性主张。
2．当因为直接营销目的而处理个人数据，数据主体有权随时反对为了此类营销而处理相关个人数据，包括反对和此类直接营销相关的用户画像。
3．当数据主体反对为了直接营销目的而处理，将不能为了此类目的而处理个人数据。
4．至晚在和数据主体所进行的第一次沟通中，第1段和第2段所规定的权利应当让数据主体明确知晓，且应当与其他信息区分开来，清晰地告知数据主体。
5．在适用信息社会服务的语境中，尽管存在2002/58/EC指令的规定，数据主体仍可以使用技术性条件、通过自动化方式行使反对权。
6．当个人数据是为了第89（1）条所规定的科学目的或历史研究目的或统计目的，数据主体基于其特定情形应当有权反对对关乎其的个人数据进行处理，除非处理对于实现公共利益的某项任务是必要的。
Article 22 Automated individual decision-making, including profiling / 第22条 自动化的个人决策，包括用户画像
The data subject shall have the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing, including profiling, which produces legal effects concerning him or her or similarly significantly affects him or her.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply if the decision:
is necessary for entering into, or performance of, a contract between the data subject and a data controller;
is authorised by Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject and which also lays down suitable measures to safeguard the data subject’s rights and freedoms and legitimate interests; or
is based on the data subject’s explicit consent.
In the cases referred to in points (a) and (c) of paragraph 2, the data controller shall implement suitable measures to safeguard the data subject’s rights and freedoms and legitimate interests, at least the right to obtain human intervention on the part of the controller, to express his or her point of view and to contest the decision.
Decisions referred to in paragraph 2 shall not be based on special categories of personal data referred to in Article 9(1), unless point (a) or (g) of Article 9(2) applies and suitable measures to safeguard the data subject’s rights and freedoms and legitimate interests are in place.
1．数据主体有权反对此类决策：完全依靠自动化处理——包括用户画像——对对数据主体做出具有法律影响或类似严重影响的决策。
2．当决策存在如下情形时，第1段不适用：
(a)当决策对于数据主体与数据控制者的合同签订或合同履行是必要的；
(b)当决策是欧盟或成员国的法律所授权的，控制者是决策的主体，并且已经制定了恰当的措施保证数据主体的权利、自由与正当利益；或者
(c)当决策建立在数据主体的明确同意基础之上。
3．在第2段所规定的（a）和（c）点的情形中，数据控制者应当采取适当措施保障数据主体的权利、自由、正当利益，以及数据主体对控制者进行人工干涉，以便表达其观点和对决策进行异议的基本权利。
4．第2段所规定的决策的基础不适用于第9（1）条所规定的特定类型的个人数据，除非符合第9（2）条（a）点或（g）点的规定，并且已经采取了保护数据主体权利、自由与正当利益的措施。
Section 5 Restrictions / 第五部分 限制
Article 23 Restrictions / 第23条 限制
Union or Member State law to which the data controller or processor is subject may restrict by way of a legislative measure the scope of the obligations and rights provided for in Articles 12 to 22 and Article 34, as well as Article 5 in so far as its provisions correspond to the rights and obligations provided for in Articles 12 to 22, when such a restriction respects the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms and is a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard:
national security;
defence;
public security;
the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public security;
other important objectives of general public interest of the Union or of a Member State, in particular an important economic or financial interest of the Union or of a Member State, including monetary, budgetary and taxation a matters, public health and social security;
the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings;
the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches of ethics for regulated professions;
a monitoring, inspection or regulatory function connected, even occasionally, to the exercise of official authority in the cases referred to in points (a) to (e) and (g);
the protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others;
the enforcement of civil law claims.
In particular, any legislative measure referred to in paragraph 1 shall contain specific provisions at least, where relevant, as to:
the purposes of the processing or categories of processing;
the categories of personal data;
the scope of the restrictions introduced;
the safeguards to prevent abuse or unlawful access or transfer;
the specification of the controller or categories of controllers;
the storage periods and the applicable safeguards taking into account the nature, scope and purposes of the processing or categories of processing;
the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects; and
the right of data subjects to be informed about the restriction, unless that may be prejudicial to the purpose of the restriction.
1．若控制者或处理者受欧盟法律或某成员国法律的调整，那么欧盟法律或该成员国法律可以通过立法手段限制第12至22条、34条以及第5条所赋予的责任范围与权利范围，只要其法律条款和第12至22条所赋予的责任与权利相对应。如果此类限制尊重基本权利与自由的核心要素，并且此类限制是实现如下民主社会中的目的所必要和成比例的措施，那么此类限制应当被允许：
(a)国家安全；
(b)国防；
(c)公共安全；
(d)预防、调查、侦查、起诉刑事违法进行或者执行刑法，包括保障公共安全和预防对公共安全的威胁；
(e)其他些欧盟或某个成员国的重要一般公共利益，特别是欧盟或某个成员国的经济或金融利益，包括财政、预算、税收事项、公共健康和社会安全；
(f)司法独立和司法诉讼的保护；
(g)为了规制性职业而预防、调查、保护和起诉违反伦理的行为；
(h)和行使（a）（b）（c）（d）（e）（g）点中所规定的官方权威相联系的某项监控、调查或规制功能；
(i)保护数据主体或其他人的权利和自由；
(j)实施民事法律主张。
2．需要特别注意的是，至少在涉及到如下情形时，任何第1段所规定的立法措施都应当包含特定条款，规定：
(a)处理的目的或处理的类型；
(b)个人数据的类型；
(c)施加限制的范围；
(d)防止滥用或非法性访问或转移的措施；
(e)控制者的具体情况或控制者类型的具体情况；
(f)在考虑了处理的性质、范围和目的或处理类型之后所制定的储存期限和可适用的保障措施；
(g)数据主体的权利和自由所面临的风险；以及
(h)数据主体获知限制的权利，除非这种权利可能影响实现限制的目的。
CHAPTER IV Controller and processor / 第四章 控制者和处理者
Section 1 General obligations / 第一部分 一般性责任
Article 24 Responsibility of the controller / 第24条 控制者的责任
Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in accordance with this Regulation. Those measures shall be reviewed and updated where necessary.
Where proportionate in relation to processing activities, the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall include the implementation of appropriate data protection policies by the controller.
Adherence to approved codes of conduct as referred to in Article 40 or approved certification mechanisms as referred to in Article 42 may be used as an element by which to demonstrate compliance with the obligations of the controller.
1．在考虑了处理的性质、范围、语境与目的，以及考虑了处理对自然人权利与自由所带来的不同概率和程度的风险后，控制者应当采取恰当的技术与组织措施，保证处理符合本条例规定的，并且能够证明处理符合本条例规定。必要时，这些措施应当被审查。
2．第1段所规定的措施，当和处理活动成比例时，应当包括控制者所采用的合适的数据保护政策。
3．遵守第40条所规定的已生效的行为准则，或遵守第42条规定的已生效的认证机制，这可以被用以证明控制者责任的合规性。
Article 25 Data protection by design and by default / 第25条 通过设计的数据保护和默认的数据保护
Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood and severity for rights and freedoms of natural persons posed by the processing, the controller shall, both at the time of the determination of the means for processing and at the time of the processing itself, implement appropriate technical and organisational measures, such as pseudonymisation, which are designed to implement data-protection principles, such as data minimisation, in an effective manner and to integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing in order to meet the requirements of this Regulation and protect the rights of data subjects.
The controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures for ensuring that, by default, only personal data which are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing are processed. That obligation applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of their processing, the period of their storage and their accessibility. In particular, such measures shall ensure that by default personal data are not made accessible without the individual’s intervention to an indefinite number of natural persons.
An approved certification mechanism pursuant to Article 42 may be used as an element to demonstrate compliance with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article.
1．在考虑了最新水平、实施成本、处理的性质、处理的范围、处理的语境与目的，以及处理给自然人权利与自由带来的伤害可能性与严重性之后，控制者应当在决定处理方式时和决定处理时，应当采取合适的技术与组织措施，并且在处理中整合必要的保障措施，以便符合本条例的要求和保护数据主体的权利。例如，控制者可以采取匿名化，一种设计用来实施数据保护原则——比如数据最小化原则——的措施。
2．控制者有责任采取适当的技术与组织措施，以保障在默认情况下，只有某个特定处理目的所必要的个人数据被处理。这种责任适用于收集的个人数据的数量、处理的限度，储存的期限以及可访问性。尤其需要注意的是，此类措施必须确保，在默认情况下，如果没有个体介入，个人数据不能为不特定数量的自然人所访问。
3．根据第42条的某种已生效的认证机制，可以被用来证明本条第1段和第2段所规定的合规要求。
Article 26 Joint controllers / 第26条 共同控制者
Where two or more controllers jointly determine the purposes and means of processing, they shall be joint controllers. They shall in a transparent manner determine their respective responsibilities for compliance with the obligations under this Regulation, in particular as regards the exercising of the rights of the data subject and their respective duties to provide the information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, by means of an arrangement between them unless, and in so far as, the respective responsibilities of the controllers are determined by Union or Member State law to which the controllers are subject. The arrangement may designate a contact point for data subjects.
The arrangement referred to in paragraph 1 shall duly reflect the respective roles and relationships of the joint controllers vis-à-vis the data subjects. The essence of the arrangement shall be made available to the data subject.
Irrespective of the terms of the arrangement referred to in paragraph 1, the data subject may exercise his or her rights under this Regulation in respect of and against each of the controllers.
1．当两个或更多控制者联合确定处理的目的与方法，它们就是共同控制者。它们应当以一种透明的方式确定遵守本条例责任的相应责任，尤其当其涉及到行使数据主体个人权利，以及涉及控制者为数据主体——根据他们的合约安排——提供第13条和第14条所规定的信息的相应责任，除非欧盟或成员国的法律已经对对控制者施加了相应责任。
2．第1段所规定的合约安排应当恰当地反映相对于数据主体的共同控制者的相应角色和相互关系。数据主体应当可以知晓安排的实质。
3．不论第1段所规定的合约安排的条款如何，数据主体都可以向任一控制者主张其本条例所赋予的权利。
Article 27 Representatives of controllers or processors not established in the Union / 第27条 不在欧盟所设立的控制者或处理者的代表
Where Article 3(2) applies, the controller or the processor shall designate in writing a representative in the Union.
The obligation laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to:
processing which is occasional, does not include, on a large scale, processing of special categories of data as referred to in Article 9(1) or processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences referred to in Article 10, and is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, taking into account the nature, context, scope and purposes of the processing; or
a public authority or body.
The representative shall be established in one of the Member States where the data subjects, whose personal data are processed in relation to the offering of goods or services to them, or whose behaviour is monitored, are.
The representative shall be mandated by the controller or processor to be addressed in addition to or instead of the controller or the processor by, in particular, supervisory authorities and data subjects, on all issues related to processing, for the purposes of ensuring compliance with this Regulation.
The designation of a representative by the controller or processor shall be without prejudice to legal actions which could be initiated against the controller or the processor themselves.
1．在第3（2）条适用的情形下，控制者或处理者应当以书面形式在欧盟委任一名代表。
2．此项责任不应当适用于：
(a)除了第9（1）条所规定的特定类型数据的大规模处理，或者第10条所规定的和刑事定罪或违法相关的个人数据处理之外的偶尔性处理，以及考虑到处理的性质、语境、范围和目的，不太可能对自然人的权利与自由带来风险的处理；或者
(b)公共机构或实体。
3．为数据主体提供相关商品或服务，或者监控数据主体的行为，数据主体的所在国之一应当设立代表。
4．为了确保对本条例的遵守，对于所有涉及到处理的事项，控制者或处理者应当做出强制性规定，确保其代表能在控制者或处理者之外收到信息，或者替代控制者或处理者收到信息，对于监管机构和数据主体所要求的事项尤其如此。
5．控制者或处理者委任代表，不能影响控制者或处理者进行的法律行动。
Article 28 Processor / 第28条 处理者
Where processing is to be carried out on behalf of a controller, the controller shall use only processors providing sufficient guarantees to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures in such a manner that processing will meet the requirements of this Regulation and ensure the protection of the rights of the data subject.
The processor shall not engage another processor without prior specific or general written authorisation of the controller. In the case of general written authorisation, the processor shall inform the controller of any intended changes concerning the addition or replacement of other processors, thereby giving the controller the opportunity to object to such changes.
Processing by a processor shall be governed by a contract or other legal act under Union or Member State law, that is binding on the processor with regard to the controller and that sets out the subject-matter and duration of the processing, the nature and purpose of the processing, the type of personal data and categories of data subjects and the obligations and rights of the controller. That contract or other legal act shall stipulate, in particular, that the processor:
processes the personal data only on documented instructions from the controller, including with regard to transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organisation, unless required to do so by Union or Member State law to which the processor is subject; in such a case, the processor shall inform the controller of that legal requirement before processing, unless that law prohibits such information on important grounds of public interest;
ensures that persons authorised to process the personal data have committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality;
takes all measures required pursuant to Article 32;
respects the conditions referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4 for engaging another processor;
taking into account the nature of the processing, assists the controller by appropriate technical and organisational measures, insofar as this is possible, for the fulfilment of the controller’s obligation to respond to requests for exercising the data subject’s rights laid down in Chapter III;
assists the controller in ensuring compliance with the obligations pursuant to Articles 32 to 36 taking into account the nature of processing and the information available to the processor;
at the choice of the controller, deletes or returns all the personal data to the controller after the end of the provision of services relating to processing, and deletes existing copies unless Union or Member State law requires storage of the personal data;
makes available to the controller all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in this Article and allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections, conducted by the controller or another auditor mandated by the controller.
With regard to point (h) of the first subparagraph, the processor shall immediately inform the controller if, in its opinion, an instruction infringes this Regulation or other Union or Member State data protection provisions.
Where a processor engages another processor for carrying out specific processing activities on behalf of the controller, the same data protection obligations as set out in the contract or other legal act between the controller and the processor as referred to in paragraph 3 shall be imposed on that other processor by way of a contract or other legal act under Union or Member State law, in particular providing sufficient guarantees to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures in such a manner that the processing will meet the requirements of this Regulation. Where that other processor fails to fulfil its data protection obligations, the initial processor shall remain fully liable to the controller for the performance of that other processor’s obligations.
Adherence of a processor to an approved code of conduct as referred to in Article 40 or an approved certification mechanism as referred to in Article 42 may be used as an element by which to demonstrate sufficient guarantees as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Article.
Without prejudice to an individual contract between the controller and the processor, the contract or the other legal act referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article may be based, in whole or in part, on standard contractual clauses referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 of this Article, including when they are part of a certification granted to the controller or processor pursuant to Articles 42 and 43.
The Commission may lay down standard contractual clauses for the matters referred to in paragraph 3 and 4 of this Article and in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2).
A supervisory authority may adopt standard contractual clauses for the matters referred to in paragraph 3 and 4 of this Article and in accordance with the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63.
The contract or the other legal act referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be in writing, including in electronic form.
Without prejudice to Articles 82, 83 and 84, if a processor infringes this Regulation by determining the purposes and means of processing, the processor shall be considered to be a controller in respect of that processing.
1．处理者代表控制者进行处理，控制者只能选用有充分保证的、可采取合适技术与组织措施的、其处理方式符合本条例要求并且保障数据主体权利的处理者。
2．如果没有控制者之前的特别授权或一般书面授权，处理者不应聘用另一个处理者。在具有一般书面授权的情形下，对于涉及到补充或替换其他处理者的变动，处理者都应当告知控制者，以便使控制者有机会反对此类变化。
3．处理者的处理应当受某类合同或其他欧盟法与成员国法的约束，这类合同或法律应当规定处理者相对于控制者的责任、主体事项、处理期限、处理性质与目的、个人数据的类型、数据主体的类型以及控制者的责任与权利的。此类合同或法律尤其应当对如下情形做出规定：
(a)只有在收到控制者的书面指示时才可以处理个人数据，在涉及到将个人数据转移到第三国或某个国际组织的事项中亦是如此，除非欧盟法或成员国法对处理者有要求；在这种情形下，处理者应当在处理之前将法律要求告知控制者，除非告知会影响重要的公共利益；
(b)对于被授权处理个人数据的人，确保其履行保密义务或法律上的适当保密责任；
(c)采取第32条所要求的所有措施；
(d)尊重第2段和第4段规定的聘用另一个处理者的条件；
(e)结合处理的性质，在可能的情形下，通过合适的技术与组织手段帮助控制者履行其责任，以便使得数据主体能够行使其第三章所规定的权利；
(f)结合处理的性质和处理者所能得到的信息，帮助控制者履行第32至36条所规定的责任；
(g)基于控制者的选择，在提供和处理相关的服务结束后，将个人数据删除或返还给控制者，并且删除已有备份，除非欧盟或成员国的法律要求储存个人数据；
(h)给控制者提供所有能够证明其已经遵循本条款规定责任的信息，以及有利于控制者或控制者委任的审计员进行审计和核查的信息。
关于第1段（h）点，如果处理者认为某项指示违反了本条例或其它欧盟或成员国的数据保护条款，其应当立即告知控制者。
4．当处理者代表控制者为了进行特定的处理活动而应聘另一处理者，第3段所规定的控制者和处理者之间的合同或其它法律条款所规定的数据保护责任应当通过合同或欧盟或成员国的法律条款而同等适用于另一处理者，尤其是应当采取充分的保障措施、恰当的技术与组织手段以满足本条例的要求。当另一个处理者无法完成其数据保护职责时，对其责任，处理者应当完全负担。
5．处理者遵守第40条所规定的已生效的行为准则，或者遵守第42条所规定的已生效的验证机制，这可以被作为证据之一，证明处理者已经采取了本条款第1段和第4段所规定的充分保障。
6．在不影响控制者和处理者之间的单独合同的前提下，第3段和第4段所规定的合同或法律条款可以全部或部分运用本条第7段和第8段所规定的格式合同条款，包括它们何时属于根据第42条和第43条规定的赋予给控制者或处理者的验证机制。
7．欧盟委员会可以对于本条第3段和第4段所规定的事项，根据第93（2）条所规定的检查程序而制定格式合同条款。
8．监管机构可以对本条第3段和第4段所规定的事项，根据第63条所规定的一致性机制而制定格式合同条款。
9．第3段和第4段所规定的合同或法律条款必须是书面的，包括以电子形式做出的书面记录。
10．在不影响第82、83、84条的情形下，如果某个处理者因为确定处理目的与方法方而违反了本条例，处理者应当在此次处理中被视为控制者。
Article 29 Processing under the authority of the controller or processor / 第29条 代表控制者或处理者进行的处理
The processor and any person acting under the authority of the controller or of the processor, who has access to personal data, shall not process those data except on instructions from the controller, unless required to do so by Union or Member State law.
对个人数据有访问权的处理者或控制者、处理者的代表人，未经控制者允许，不得处理该个人数据。欧盟法律或成员国法律另有规定的除外。
Article 30 Records of processing activities / 第30条 处理活动的记录
Each controller and, where applicable, the controller’s representative, shall maintain a record of processing activities under its responsibility. That record shall contain all of the following information:
the name and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, the joint controller, the controller’s representative and the data protection officer;
the purposes of the processing;
a description of the categories of data subjects and of the categories of personal data;
the categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed including recipients in third countries or international organisations;
where applicable, transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organisation, including the identification of that third country or international organisation and, in the case of transfers referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), the documentation of suitable safeguards;
where possible, the envisaged time limits for erasure of the different categories of data;
where possible, a general description of the technical and organisational security measures referred to in Article 32(1).
Each processor and, where applicable, the processor’s representative shall maintain a record of all categories of processing activities carried out on behalf of a controller, containing:
the name and contact details of the processor or processors and of each controller on behalf of which the processor is acting, and, where applicable, of the controller’s or the processor’s representative, and the data protection officer;
the categories of processing carried out on behalf of each controller;
where applicable, transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organisation, including the identification of that third country or international organisation and, in the case of transfers referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), the documentation of suitable safeguards;
where possible, a general description of the technical and organisational security measures referred to in Article 32(1).
The records referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be in writing, including in electronic form.
The controller or the processor and, where applicable, the controller’s or the processor’s representative, shall make the record available to the supervisory authority on request.
The obligations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to an enterprise or an organisation employing fewer than 250 persons unless the processing it carries out is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, the processing is not occasional, or the processing includes special categories of data as referred to in Article 9(1) or personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences referred to in Article 10.
1．每个控制者——以及如果有的话——每个控制者的代表，都应当保持其所负责的处理活动的记录。这种记录应当包含所有如下信息：
(a)控制者以及——如果有的话——共同控制者、控制者的代表、数据保护官的姓名、详细联系方式；
(b)处理的目的；
(c)对数据主体的类型以及个人数据的类型的描述；
(d)个人数据已经被披露或将被披露给的接收者——包括位于第三国或国际组织的接收者——的类型；
(e)如果适用的话，将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织的记录，包括识别此第三国或国际组织的记录，以及在第49（1）条第二分段所提到转移的情形中，对适当保障措施的记录；
(f)如果适用的话，擦除不同种数据类型的预计期限；
(g)如果适用的话，对第32（1）条所规定的技术性与组织性安全措施的一般性描述。
2．每个处理者以及——如果适用的话——处理者的代表对于以控制者名义进行的处理都应当保持保存一份记录，包含如下信息：
(a)处理者或处理者们的名字和详细联系方式、处理者所代表的每个控制者以及——如果有的话——控制者或处理者的代表、数据保护官；
(b)代表每个控制者进行处理的类型；
(c)如果适用的话，将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织的记录，包括识别此第三国或国际组织的记录，以及在第49（1）条第二分段所提到转移的情形中，对适当保障措施的记录；
(d)如果有的话，对第32（1）条所规定的技术性和组织性安全措施的一般性描述。
3．第1段和第2段所规定的记录应当是书面的，包括以电子形式作出的书面记录。
4．基于监管机构的要求，控制者或处理者以及——在有的情况下——控制者或处理者的代表，应当提供可获取的记录。
5．第1和第2段所规定的责任不适用于雇员少于250人的经济主体或组织，除非其进行的处理不是偶尔性的，而且可能会对数据主体的权利与自由带来风险，或者其处理包含了第9（1）条规定的特定种类的数据或第10条规定的和刑事犯罪和违法相关的个人数据。
Article 31 Cooperation with the supervisory authority / 第31条 和监管机构的合作
The controller and the processor and, where applicable, their representatives, shall cooperate, on request, with the supervisory authority in the performance of its tasks.
在监管机构的要求下，控制者和处理者以及——在适用的情况下——它们的代表应当配合监管机构的工作。
Section 2 Security of personal data / 第二部分 个人数据的安全
Article 32 Security of processing / 第32条 处理的安全
Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk, including inter alia as appropriate:
the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data;
the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems and services;
the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident;
a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing.
In assessing the appropriate level of security account shall be taken in particular of the risks that are presented by processing, in particular from accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.
Adherence to an approved code of conduct as referred to in Article 40 or an approved certification mechanism as referred to in Article 42 may be used as an element by which to demonstrate compliance with the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.
The controller and processor shall take steps to ensure that any natural person acting under the authority of the controller or the processor who has access to personal data does not process them except on instructions from the controller, unless he or she is required to do so by Union or Member State law.
1．在考虑了最新水平、实施成本、处理的性质、处理的范围、处理的语境与目的之后，以及处理给自然人权利与自由带来的伤害可能性与严重性之后，控制者和处理者应当采取包括但不限于如下的适当技术与组织措施，以便保证和风险相称的安全水平：
(a)个人数据的匿名化和加密；
(b)保持处理系统与服务的保密性、公正性、有效性以及重新恢复的能力；
(c)在遭受物理性或技术性事件的情形中，有能力恢复对个人数据的获取与访问；
(d)具有为保证处理安全而常规性地测试、评估与评价技术性与组织性手段有效性的流程。
2．在评估合适的安全级别的时候，应当特别考虑处理所带来的风险，特别是在个人数据传输、储存或处理过程中的的意外或非法销毁、丢失、篡改、未经授权的披露或访问。
3．遵守第40条所规定的已生效的行为准则，或者遵守第42条所规定的已生效的验证机制，这可以被作为证据之一，证明已经遵守了本条款第1段的要求。
4．控制者和处理者应当采取措施确保，除非接到控制者的指示，任何有权访问个人数据的处理者或任何代表控制者和处理者的自然人都不会进行处理，除非欧盟或成员国法律要求进行处理。
Article 33 Notification of a personal data breach to the supervisory authority / 第33条 向监管机构报告对个人数据的泄露
In the case of a personal data breach, the controller shall without undue delay and, where feasible, not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, notify the personal data breach to the supervisory authority competent in accordance with Article 55, unless the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. Where the notification to the supervisory authority is not made within 72 hours, it shall be accompanied by reasons for the delay.
The processor shall notify the controller without undue delay after becoming aware of a personal data breach.
The notification referred to in paragraph 1 shall at least:
describe the nature of the personal data breach including where possible, the categories and approximate number of data subjects concerned and the categories and approximate number of personal data records concerned;
communicate the name and contact details of the data protection officer or other contact point where more information can be obtained;
describe the likely consequences of the personal data breach;
describe the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the controller to address the personal data breach, including, where appropriate, measures to mitigate its possible adverse effects.
Where, and in so far as, it is not possible to provide the information at the same time, the information may be provided in phases without undue further delay.
The controller shall document any personal data breaches, comprising the facts relating to the personal data breach, its effects and the remedial action taken. That documentation shall enable the supervisory authority to verify compliance with this Article.
1．在个人数据泄露的情形中，如果可行，控制者在知悉后应当及时——至迟在72小时内——将个人数据泄露告知第55条所规定的有权监管机构，除非个人数据泄露对于自然人的权利与自由不太可能会带来风险。对于不能在72小时以内告知监管机构的情形，应当提供延迟告知的原因。
2．处理者在获知个人数据泄露后，应当及时告知控制者。
3．第1段所规定的告知应当至少包括：
(a)描述个人数据泄露的性质，在可能的情形下，描述包括相关数据主体的类型和大致数量，以及涉及到个人数据的类型与大致数量；
(b)告知数据保护官的姓名与详细联系方式，或者可以获取更多信息的其他联系方式；
(c)描述个人数据泄露的可能后果；
(d)描述控制者应对个人数据泄露已经采用或计划采用的措施，包括——如果合适的话——减少负面影响的措施。
4．在不可能同时提供信息的情形下，可以分阶段地及时提供信息。
5．控制者应当记录所有对个人数据的泄露，包括泄露个人数据相关的事实、影响与已经采取的救济行动。参照该记录，监管机构得以核实控制者是否遵守本条例的有关规定。
Article 34 Communication of a personal data breach to the data subject / 第34条 向数据主体传达个人数据泄露
When the personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller shall communicate the personal data breach to the data subject without undue delay.
The communication to the data subject referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall describe in clear and plain language the nature of the personal data breach and contain at least the information and measures referred to in points (b), (c) and (d) of Article 33(3).
The communication to the data subject referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be required if any of the following conditions are met:
the controller has implemented appropriate technical and organisational protection measures, and those measures were applied to the personal data affected by the personal data breach, in particular those that render the personal data unintelligible to any person who is not authorised to access it, such as encryption;
the controller has taken subsequent measures which ensure that the high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects referred to in paragraph 1 is no longer likely to materialise;
it would involve disproportionate effort. In such a case, there shall instead be a public communication or similar measure whereby the data subjects are informed in an equally effective manner.
If the controller has not already communicated the personal data breach to the data subject, the supervisory authority, having considered the likelihood of the personal data breach resulting in a high risk, may require it to do so or may decide that any of the conditions referred to in paragraph 3 are met.
1．当个人数据泄露很可能给自然人的权利与自由带来高风险时，控制者应当及时向数据主体传达对个人数据泄露。
2．本条第1段所规定的向数据主体传达，应当以清晰和平白的语言传达个人数据泄露的性质，并且应当至少包括第33（3）条（b）（c）（d）点所提供的信息与建议。
3．当满足如下情形之一时，不要求控制者告知数据主体其个人数据被泄露的信息：
(a)控制者已经采取合适的技术与组织保证措施，并且那些措施已经应用于那些被个人数据泄露所影响的个人数据，特别是已经应用那些使得未被授权访问的个人无法辨识个人数据的措施，例如加密；
(b)控制者已经采取后续措施，保证第1段所规定的给数据主体的权利与自由带来的高风险不再有实现的可能；
(c)告知将需要付出不相称的努力。此时，应存在公告机制或类似措施来承担控制者的告知义务，并且与控制者告知相比，这种措施的告知效果应当至少有相同效果。
4．如果控制者仍然没有将个人数据泄露告知数据主体，监管机构在考虑了个人数据泄露所可能带来的高风险可能性后，可以要求其告知，或者可以认为符合第3段所规定的情形。
Section 3 Data protection impact assessment and prior consultation / 第三部分 数据保护影响评估与提前咨询
Article 35 Data protection impact assessment / 第35条 数据保护影响评估
Where a type of processing in particular using new technologies, and taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller shall, prior to the processing, carry out an assessment of the impact of the envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal data. A single assessment may address a set of similar processing operations that present similar high risks.
The controller shall seek the advice of the data protection officer, where designated, when carrying out a data protection impact assessment.
A data protection impact assessment referred to in paragraph 1 shall in particular be required in the case of:
a systematic and extensive evaluation of personal aspects relating to natural persons which is based on automated processing, including profiling, and on which decisions are based that produce legal effects concerning the natural person or similarly significantly affect the natural person;
processing on a large scale of special categories of data referred to in Article 9(1), or of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences referred to in Article 10; or
a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale.
The supervisory authority shall establish and make public a list of the kind of processing operations which are subject to the requirement for a data protection impact assessment pursuant to paragraph 1. The supervisory authority shall communicate those lists to the Board referred to in Article 68.
The supervisory authority may also establish and make public a list of the kind of processing operations for which no data protection impact assessment is required. The supervisory authority shall communicate those lists to the Board.
Prior to the adoption of the lists referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5, the competent supervisory authority shall apply the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63 where such lists involve processing activities which are related to the offering of goods or services to data subjects or to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States, or may substantially affect the free movement of personal data within the Union.
The assessment shall contain at least:
a systematic description of the envisaged processing operations and the purposes of the processing, including, where applicable, the legitimate interest pursued by the controller;
an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing operations in relation to the purposes;
an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects referred to in paragraph 1; and
the measures envisaged to address the risks, including safeguards, security measures and mechanisms to ensure the protection of personal data and to demonstrate compliance with this Regulation taking into account the rights and legitimate interests of data subjects and other persons concerned.
Compliance with approved codes of conduct referred to in Article 40 by the relevant controllers or processors shall be taken into due account in assessing the impact of the processing operations performed by such controllers or processors, in particular for the purposes of a data protection impact assessment.
Where appropriate, the controller shall seek the views of data subjects or their representatives on the intended processing, without prejudice to the protection of commercial or public interests or the security of processing operations.
Where processing pursuant to point (c) or (e) of Article 6(1) has a legal basis in Union law or in the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject, that law regulates the specific processing operation or set of operations in question, and a data protection impact assessment has already been carried out as part of a general impact assessment in the context of the adoption of that legal basis, paragraphs 1 to 7 shall not apply unless Member States deem it to be necessary to carry out such an assessment prior to processing activities.
Where necessary, the controller shall carry out a review to assess if processing is performed in accordance with the data protection impact assessment at least when there is a change of the risk represented by processing operations.
1．当某种类型的处理——特别是适用新技术进行的处理——很可能会对自然人的权利与自由带来高风险时，在考虑了处理的性质、范围、语境与目的后，控制者应当在处理之前评估计划的处理进程对个人数据保护的影响。若多项高风险处理活动属于同一种类，那么此时仅对其中某一项活动进行评估即可。
2．如果控制者已经委任数据保护官，当其进行数据保护影响评估时，控制者应当向数据保护官进行咨询。
3．在如下情形中，第1段所规定的数据保护影响评估是尤其必须的：
(a)对与自然人相关的个人因素进行系统性与全面性的评价，此类评价建立在自动化处理——包括用户画像——基础上的，并且其决策对自然人产生法律影响或类似重大影响；
(b)以大规模处理的方式处理第9（1）条所规定的特定类型的数据，或者和第10条规定的定罪与违法相关的个人数据；或者
(c)以大规模的方式系统性地监控某个公众可以访问的空间。
4．监管机构应当建立并公开一个列表，列明符合第1段所要求的数据保护影响评估的处理操作的类型。监管机构应当将此类列表告知第68条所提到欧盟数据保护委员会。
5．监管机构还可以建立一个公开性的列表，列明符合不需要进行数据保护影响评估的处理操作的类型。监管机构应当将此类列表告知欧盟数据保护委员会。
6．在设置第4段与第5段所规定的列表之前，当此类列表涉及到为数据主体提供商品或服务，或者涉及到对多个成员国行为的监管，或者可能实质性地影响欧盟内部个人数据的自由流动，有职权的监管机构应当首先适用第63条所规定的一致性机制。
7．评估应当至少包括：
(a)对计划的处理操作和处理目的的系统性描述，以及——如果适用的话——对控制者所追求的正当利益的描述；
(b)对和目的相关的处理操作的必要性与相称性进行分析；
(c)对第1段所规定的给数据主体的权利与自由带来的风险的评估；
(d)结合数据主体和其他相关个人的权利与正当利益，采取的计划性风险应对措施，包括保障个人数据保护和证明遵循本条例的安全保障、安全措施和机制。
8．评估相关控制者或处理者的处理操作的影响时，特别是评估数据保护影响时，应当合理考虑其对第40条所规定的已生效的行为准则的遵守。
9．在合适的情形下，如果其不影响保护商业或公共利益或处理操作的安全性，控制者应当咨询数据主体或数据主体代表对于其预期处理的观点。
10．当基于第6（1）条（c）或（e）点而进行的处理符合欧盟或成员国为控制者制定涉及到处理操作的法律，并且在制定其法律基准时已经进行了作为一般性影响评估一部分的数据保护影响评估时，第1至7段不应当适用，除非成员国认为，有必要在处理活动前进行此类评估。
11．必要时，控制者应当进行核查，评估处理是否是符合数据保护影响评估，至少当处理操作所带来的风险存在变化时，应进行核查。
Article 36 Prior consultation / 第36条 提前咨询
The controller shall consult the supervisory authority prior to processing where a data protection impact assessment under Article 35 indicates that the processing would result in a high risk in the absence of measures taken by the controller to mitigate the risk.
Where the supervisory authority is of the opinion that the intended processing referred to in paragraph 1 would infringe this Regulation, in particular where the controller has insufficiently identified or mitigated the risk, the supervisory authority shall, within period of up to eight weeks of receipt of the request for consultation, provide written advice to the controller and, where applicable to the processor, and may use any of its powers referred to in Article 58. That period may be extended by six weeks, taking into account the complexity of the intended processing. The supervisory authority shall inform the controller and, where applicable, the processor, of any such extension within one month of receipt of the request for consultation together with the reasons for the delay. Those periods may be suspended until the supervisory authority has obtained information it has requested for the purposes of the consultation.
When consulting the supervisory authority pursuant to paragraph 1, the controller shall provide the supervisory authority with:
where applicable, the respective responsibilities of the controller, joint controllers and processors involved in the processing, in particular for processing within a group of undertakings;
the purposes and means of the intended processing;
the measures and safeguards provided to protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects pursuant to this Regulation;
where applicable, the contact details of the data protection officer;
the data protection impact assessment provided for in Article 35; and
any other information requested by the supervisory authority.
Member States shall consult the supervisory authority during the preparation of a proposal for a legislative measure to be adopted by a national parliament, or of a regulatory measure based on such a legislative measure, which relates to processing.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, Member State law may require controllers to consult with, and obtain prior authorisation from, the supervisory authority in relation to processing by a controller for the performance of a task carried out by the controller in the public interest, including processing in relation to social protection and public health.
1．当第35条所规定的数据保护影响评估表明，如果控制者不采取措施，处理会带来高风险，那么控制者应当在处理之前咨询监管机构。
2．当监管机构认为，第1段所规定的预期的处理将违反本条例，特别是当控制者无法识别或减小风险，监管机构应当在收到咨询请求的八个星期以内向控制者以及——在适用的情况下——处理者提供书面建议，并且可以使用第58条所规定的权力。考虑到预期处理的复杂性，这种期限可以延长六个星期。监管机构应当在收到咨询请求的一个月内向控制者以及——在适用的情况下——处理者告知延期以及延期的原因。监管机构可以延长期限，直到其获取了咨询所要求的信息。
3．当咨询第1段所规定的监管机构时，控制者应当向监管机构提供如下信息：
(a)在适用的情形下，涉及到处理——特别是当处理是在一群企业内部进行的——的控制者、共同控制者和处理者的相应责任；
(b)预期处理的目的与方法；
(c)为了保障数据主体权利与自由所采取的符合本条例的方法与措施；
(d)在适用的情形下，数据保护官的详细联系方式；
(e)第35条所规定的数据保护影响评估；以及
(f)监管机构要求的所有其它信息。
4．成员国在起草相关立法草案以获得国会通过时，或者根据此类立法措施制定处理相关的规制措施时，应当咨询监管机构。
5．虽然有第1段的规定，但在和控制者履行实现公共利益任务相关的处理中，包括和社会保障与公共健康相关的处理中，成员国法律可以要求控制者在其处理相关的事项中咨询监管机构并且提前获取监管机构的授权。
Section 4 Data protection officer / 第四部分 数据保护官
Article 37 Designation of the data protection officer / 第37条 数据保护官的委任
The controller and the processor shall designate a data protection officer in any case where:
the processing is carried out by a public authority or body, except for courts acting in their judicial capacity;
the core activities of the controller or the processor consist of processing operations which, by virtue of their nature, their scope and/or their purposes, require regular and systematic monitoring of data subjects on a large scale; or
the core activities of the controller or the processor consist of processing on a large scale of special categories of data pursuant to Article 9 and personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences referred to in Article 10.
A group of undertakings may appoint a single data protection officer provided that a data protection officer is easily accessible from each establishment.
Where the controller or the processor is a public authority or body, a single data protection officer may be designated for several such authorities or bodies, taking account of their organisational structure and size.
In cases other than those referred to in paragraph 1, the controller or processor or associations and other bodies representing categories of controllers or processors may or, where required by Union or Member State law shall, designate a data protection officer. The data protection officer may act for such associations and other bodies representing controllers or processors.
The data protection officer shall be designated on the basis of professional qualities and, in particular, expert knowledge of data protection law and practices and the ability to fulfil the tasks referred to in Article 39.
The data protection officer may be a staff member of the controller or processor, or fulfil the tasks on the basis of a service contract.
The controller or the processor shall publish the contact details of the data protection officer and communicate them to the supervisory authority.
1．在如下任一情形中，控制者和处理者应当委任数据保护官：
(a)处理是公共机构或公共实体进行操作的，法庭在履行其司法职能时除外；
(b)控制者或处理者的核心处理活动天然性地需要大规模性地对数据主体进行常规和系统性的监控；或者
(c)控制者或处理者的核心活动包含了第9条规定的对某种特殊类型数据的大规模处理和第10条规定的对定罪和违法相关的个人数据的处理。
2．如果一组企业的每一个机构都能很容易联系数据保护官，这一组企业可以任命一个单独的数据保护官。
3．当控制者或处理者是一个公共机构或公共实体，基于它们的组织结构和规模，多个此类公共机构或实体可以共同委任一个数据保护官。
4．除了第1段所规定的情形，在欧盟或成员国法律要求的情形下，控制者或处理者，或代表某类控制者或处理者的协会和其他实体可以委任一名数据保护官。对于此类协会，或代表控制者或处理者的其他实体的活动，数据保护官有权代表它们进行活动。
5．数据保护官的委任必须基于其专业性的素质，其需要具有数据保护法律与实践的专业知识，以及完成第39条所规定的任务的能力。
6．数据保护官应当是控制者或处理者或基于服务合同而完成任务的一名职员。
7．控制者或处理者应当发布数据保护官的详细联系方式，并向监管机构进行报告。
Article 38 Position of the data protection officer / 第38条 数据保护官的职位
The controller and the processor shall ensure that the data protection officer is involved, properly and in a timely manner, in all issues which relate to the protection of personal data.
The controller and processor shall support the data protection officer in performing the tasks referred to in Article 39 by providing resources necessary to carry out those tasks and access to personal data and processing operations, and to maintain his or her expert knowledge.
The controller and processor shall ensure that the data protection officer does not receive any instructions regarding the exercise of those tasks. He or she shall not be dismissed or penalised by the controller or the processor for performing his tasks. The data protection officer shall directly report to the highest management level of the controller or the processor.
Data subjects may contact the data protection officer with regard to all issues related to processing of their personal data and to the exercise of their rights under this Regulation.
The data protection officer shall be bound by secrecy or confidentiality concerning the performance of his or her tasks, in accordance with Union or Member State law.
The data protection officer may fulfil other tasks and duties. The controller or processor shall ensure that any such tasks and duties do not result in a conflict of interests.
1．控制者和处理者应当确保，在所有与个人数据保护相关的事项中，数据保护官都应当以一种恰当和及时的方式介入。
2．控制者和处理者应当支持数据保护官履行第39条所规定的责任，应当提供其履行此类责任、访问个人数据、进行处理操作，以及维持其专业性知识的必要资源。
3．控制者和处理者应当确保个人数据保护官不会收到任何关于履行此类责任的指示。个人数据保护官不能因为完成其任务而被控制者或处理者解雇。其可以直接向控制者或处理者的最高管理层进行报告。
4．数据主体可以在所有和处理其个人数据相关的事项中，以及和行使本条例所赋予的权利相关的事项中联系数据保护官。
5．数据保护官在完成其任务时，应当遵守欧盟或成员国的法律，负有保密义务。
6．数据保护官可以完成其他任务或责任。控制者或处理者应当保证任何此类任务和责任不会导致利益冲突。
Article 39 Tasks of the data protection officer / 第39条 数据保护官的任务
The data protection officer shall have at least the following tasks:
to inform and advise the controller or the processor and the employees who carry out processing of their obligations pursuant to this Regulation and to other Union or Member State data protection provisions;
to monitor compliance with this Regulation, with other Union or Member State data protection provisions and with the policies of the controller or processor in relation to the protection of personal data, including the assignment of responsibilities, awareness-raising and training of staff involved in processing operations, and the related audits;
to provide advice where requested as regards the data protection impact assessment and monitor its performance pursuant to Article 35;
to cooperate with the supervisory authority;
to act as the contact point for the supervisory authority on issues relating to processing, including the prior consultation referred to in Article 36, and to consult, where appropriate, with regard to any other matter.
The data protection officer shall in the performance of his or her tasks have due regard to the risk associated with processing operations, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing.
1．数据保护官应当至少具有如下任务：
(a)对控制者或处理者，以及那些履行本条例和欧盟其他成员国数据保护条款所规定的处理责任的雇员进行告知，提供建议；
(b)确保遵守本条例、其他欧盟或成员国数据保护条款、和个人数据保护相关的控制者或处理者的政策，包括分配处理操作中以及相关审计中的责任、增强意识以及培训职员；
(c)根据要求，应当对数据保护影响评估以及根据第35条对其实施进行监管的事项提供建议；
(d)和监管机构进行合作；
(e)在与处理相关的事项中，包括第36条所规定的提前咨询中，以及——在适用的情况下——在其他所有相关事项的咨询中，充当监管机构的联系人。
2．数据保护官在履行其任务时，应当结合处理的性质、范围、语境与目的，合理地考虑处理操作所伴随的风险。
Section 5 Codes of conduct and certification / 第五部分 行为准则与认证
Article 40 Codes of conduct / 第40条 行为准则
The Member States, the supervisory authorities, the Board and the Commission shall encourage the drawing up of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of this Regulation, taking account of the specific features of the various processing sectors and the specific needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
Associations and other bodies representing categories of controllers or processors may prepare codes of conduct, or amend or extend such codes, for the purpose of specifying the application of this Regulation, such as with regard to:
fair and transparent processing;
the legitimate interests pursued by controllers in specific contexts;
the collection of personal data;
the pseudonymisation of personal data;
the information provided to the public and to data subjects;
the exercise of the rights of data subjects;
the information provided to, and the protection of, children, and the manner in which the consent of the holders of parental responsibility over children is to be obtained;
the measures and procedures referred to in Articles 24 and 25 and the measures to ensure security of processing referred to in Article 32;
the notification of personal data breaches to supervisory authorities and the communication of such personal data breaches to data subjects;
the transfer of personal data to third countries or international organisations; or
out-of-court proceedings and other dispute resolution procedures for resolving disputes between controllers and data subjects with regard to processing, without prejudice to the rights of data subjects pursuant to Articles 77 and 79.
In addition to adherence by controllers or processors subject to this Regulation, codes of conduct approved pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Article and having general validity pursuant to paragraph 9 of this Article may also be adhered to by controllers or processors that are not subject to this Regulation pursuant to Article 3 in order to provide appropriate safeguards within the framework of personal data transfers to third countries or international organisations under the terms referred to in point (e) of Article 46(2). Such controllers or processors shall make binding and enforceable commitments, via contractual or other legally binding instruments, to apply those appropriate safeguards including with regard to the rights of data subjects.
A code of conduct referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall contain mechanisms which enable the body referred to in Article 41(1) to carry out the mandatory monitoring of compliance with its provisions by the controllers or processors which undertake to apply it, without prejudice to the tasks and powers of supervisory authorities competent pursuant to Article 55 or 56.
Associations and other bodies referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article which intend to prepare a code of conduct or to amend or extend an existing code shall submit the draft code, amendment or extension to the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 55. The supervisory authority shall provide an opinion on whether the draft code, amendment or extension complies with this Regulation and shall approve that draft code, amendment or extension if it finds that it provides sufficient appropriate safeguards.
Where the draft code, or amendment or extension is approved in accordance with paragraph 5, and where the code of conduct concerned does not relate to processing activities in several Member States, the supervisory authority shall register and publish the code.
Where a draft code of conduct relates to processing activities in several Member States, the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 55 shall, before approving the draft code, amendment or extension, submit it in the procedure referred to in Article 63 to the Board which shall provide an opinion on whether the draft code, amendment or extension complies with this Regulation or, in the situation referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, provides appropriate safeguards.
Where the opinion referred to in paragraph 7 confirms that the draft code, amendment or extension complies with this Regulation, or, in the situation referred to in paragraph 3, provides appropriate safeguards, the Board shall submit its opinion to the Commission.
The Commission may, by way of implementing acts, decide that the approved code of conduct, amendment or extension submitted to it pursuant to paragraph 8 of this Article have general validity within the Union. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure set out in Article 93(2).
The Commission shall ensure appropriate publicity for the approved codes which have been decided as having general validity in accordance with paragraph 9.
The Board shall collate all approved codes of conduct, amendments and extensions in a register and shall make them publicly available by way of appropriate means.
1．成员国、监管机构以及欧盟数据保护委员会与欧盟委员会鼓励在考虑不同处理部门的特征以及微型、小型以及中型经济主体的特定需求的基础上起草促进本条例合理适用的行为准则。
2．协会以及其它代表某类控制者或处理者的实体为了对适用本规则进行细化，可以起草行为准则，或修正或延长此类准则，例如，它们可以起草涉及到如下事项的准则：
(a)合理与透明的处理；
(b)在特定情境下控制者所追求的正当利益；
(c)对个人数据的收集；
(d)对个人数据进行匿名化处置；
(e)提供给公众与数据主体的信息；
(f)数据主体权利的行使；
(g)提供给儿童和保护儿童的信息，以及为了获取儿童监护人同意所采取的形式；
(h)第24条和第25条所规定的措施与程序，以及为了保障第32条所规定的处理安全所采取的措施；
(i)向监管机构通报个人数据泄露，以及将此类个人数据泄露告知数据主体；
(j)将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织；或者
(k)不影响第77条和第99条所规定的数据主体权利的庭外诉讼性活动，以及为了解决控制者与数据主体在处理相关事项中争议的纠纷解决程序。
3．控制者或处理者除了受本条例约束之外，对于根据第3条不受本条例约束的情形，为了保证在第46（2）条（e）点所规定的将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织的框架中提供合适的安全措施，也可以受本条第5段所规定的已生效的行为准则约束，或者受本条第9段规定的具有一般性效力的行为准则所约束。为了提供此类合适的安全措施，包括和数据主体权利相关的安全措施，此类控制者或处理者应当通过合同或其他具有法律强制力的措施制定有约束力和可执行的承诺。
4．在不影响第55或56条所规定的有权监管机构的任务与权利的前提下，本条第2段所规定的行为准则应当包括使第41（1）条所规定的实体能履行其监管任务的有效措施，保证负责实施行为准则的控制者或处理者遵循其条款的规定。
5．本条第2段所规定的计划起草、修改行为准则或延长现有准则的协会或其他实体，应当将准则草案、修正案或延期提议提交给符合第55条的有权监管机构。监管机构应当提供一份意见书，表明草案、修正案或延期提议是否符合本条例的规定，如果监管机构认定已经采取了足够和适当的安全保障，其应当批准草案、修正案或延期提议。
6．当准则草案、或修正案或延期提议是根据第5段的规定而被批准的，并且行为准则不涉及多个成员国的处理活动，监管机构应当进行登记并发表准则。
7．当行为准则的草案涉及到多个国家的处理活动，第55条所规定的有权监管机构应当在批准准则草案、修订或延期之前将其按照第63条规定的程序提交给欧盟数据保护委员会，并应提供一份意见书，表明准则草案、修正案或延期是否遵循了本条例，或者——在第3段所规定的情形中——是否提供了恰当的安全措施。
8．当第7段中规定的意见书确认了准则草案、修正案或延期遵循了本条例，或者——在第3段所规定的情形中——提供了恰当的安全措施，欧盟数据保护委员会应当将意见书提交给欧盟委员会。
9．欧盟委员会应当通过制定实施法案确定，根据第8段规定而提交的已生效的行为准则、修正案或延期是否在欧盟具有一般效力。此类法案的制定应当符合第94（2）条所规定的核查程序。
10．对于已经被认定符合第9段中所规定的具有一般有效性的已生效准则，欧盟委员会应当保证其具有适当的公开性。
11．欧盟数据保护委员会应当核查所有登记的已生效行为准则、修正案以及延期，并且应当以恰当的方式使得公众能够获取。
Article 41 Monitoring of approved codes of conduct / 第41条 对已生效行为准则的监控
Without prejudice to the tasks and powers of the competent supervisory authority under Articles 57 and 58, the monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct pursuant to Article 40 may be carried out by a body which has an appropriate level of expertise in relation to the subject-matter of the code and is accredited for that purpose by the competent supervisory authority.
A body as referred to in paragraph 1 may be accredited to monitor compliance with a code of conduct where that body has:
demonstrated its independence and expertise in relation to the subject-matter of the code to the satisfaction of the competent supervisory authority;
established procedures which allow it to assess the eligibility of controllers and processors concerned to apply the code, to monitor their compliance with its provisions and to periodically review its operation;
established procedures and structures to handle complaints about infringements of the code or the manner in which the code has been, or is being, implemented by a controller or processor, and to make those procedures and structures transparent to data subjects and the public; and
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the competent supervisory authority that its tasks and duties do not result in a conflict of interests.
The competent supervisory authority shall submit the draft criteria for accreditation of a body as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to the Board pursuant to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63.
Without prejudice to the tasks and powers of the competent supervisory authority and the provisions of Chapter VIII, a body as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall, subject to appropriate safeguards, take appropriate action in cases of infringement of the code by a controller or processor, including suspension or exclusion of the controller or processor concerned from the code. It shall inform the competent supervisory authority of such actions and the reasons for taking them.
The competent supervisory authority shall revoke the accreditation of a body as referred to in paragraph 1 if the conditions for accreditation are not, or are no longer, met or where actions taken by the body infringe this Regulation.
This Article shall not apply to processing carried out by public authorities and bodies.
1．在不影响第57和第58条规定的有权监管机构的任务与权利的前提下，对根据第40条制定的行为准则的合规性监管可以交给如下实体：在准则所规定事项方面具有适当的专业性，并且其合规性监管权力已经得到有权监管机构认证。
2．第1段所规定的实体，当存在如下条件时，可以被委任为有权监管是否遵守行为准则的机构：
(a)已经证明在准则所规定事项方面具有独立性与专业性，满足有权监管机构的要求；
(b)已经确立了相关程序，可以通过程序评估相关控制者和处理者适用准则的资质，监控其对准则条款的遵守，以及间歇性地评估其操作；
(c)已经设立程序和体系，解决关于违反准则，或关于控制者或处理者已经实施、或正在实施准则的方式的申诉，并且已使得此类程序与体系对数据主体和公众透明化；并且
(d)已经表明其符合有权监管机构的要求，其任务和职责不存在利益冲突的情形。
3．有权监管机构应当按照第63条所规定的一致性机制，将认证第1段中所规定的实体的标准草案提交给欧盟数据保护委员会。
4．当控制者或处理者违反准则，第1段所规定的实体在不影响有权监管机构的任务和权利、第八章条款的前提下，应当在适当安全措施的保障下采取合适的行动，包括准则中中止或剔除相关控制者或处理者。实体应当将此类行动以及行动的理由告知有权监管机构。
5．如果第1段所规定的实体不符合或不再符合认证的条件，或者其行为违反了本条例，有权监管机构应当撤回对其的认证。
6．本条不适用于公共机构和公共实体所进行的处理。
Article 42 Certification / 第42条 认证
The Member States, the supervisory authorities, the Board and the Commission shall encourage, in particular at Union level, the establishment of data protection certification mechanisms and of data protection seals and marks, for the purpose of demonstrating compliance with this Regulation of processing operations by controllers and processors. The specific needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises shall be taken into account.
In addition to adherence by controllers or processors subject to this Regulation, data protection certification mechanisms, seals or marks approved pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Article may be established for the purpose of demonstrating the existence of appropriate safeguards provided by controllers or processors that are not subject to this Regulation pursuant to Article 3 within the framework of personal data transfers to third countries or international organisations under the terms referred to in point (f) of Article 46(2). Such controllers or processors shall make binding and enforceable commitments, via contractual or other legally binding instruments, to apply those appropriate safeguards, including with regard to the rights of data subjects.
The certification shall be voluntary and available via a process that is transparent.
A certification pursuant to this Article does not reduce the responsibility of the controller or the processor for compliance with this Regulation and is without prejudice to the tasks and powers of the supervisory authorities which are competent pursuant to Article 55 or 56.
A certification pursuant to this Article shall be issued by the certification bodies referred to in Article 43 or by the competent supervisory authority, on the basis of criteria approved by that competent supervisory authority pursuant to Article 58(3) or by the Board pursuant to Article 63. Where the criteria are approved by the Board, this may result in a common certification, the European Data Protection Seal.
The controller or processor which submits its processing to the certification mechanism shall provide the certification body referred to in Article 43, or where applicable, the competent supervisory authority, with all information and access to its processing activities which are necessary to conduct the certification procedure.
Certification shall be issued to a controller or processor for a maximum period of three years and may be renewed, under the same conditions, provided that the relevant requirements continue to be met. Certification shall be withdrawn, as applicable, by the certification bodies referred to in Article 43 or by the competent supervisory authority where the requirements for the certification are not or are no longer met.
The Board shall collate all certification mechanisms and data protection seals and marks in a register and shall make them publicly available by any appropriate means.
1．成员国、监管机构、欧盟数据保护委员会和欧盟委员会应当鼓励——尤其是在欧盟层面——建立数据保护认证机制、数据保护印章和标记，以证明控制者和处理者的处理操作符合本条例。对此应当考虑微型、小型以及中型经济主体的特定需求。
2．控制者或处理者除了受本条例约束之外，也可以设立符合本条第5段的数据保护认证机制、印章或标记，以便证明，对于根据第3条不受本条例约束的情形，已经对第46（2）条（f）点所规定的将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织的情形采取了合适的安全措施。为了提供此类合适的安全措施，包括和数据主体权利相关的安全措施，此类控制者或处理者应当通过合同或其他具有法律强制力的措施制定有约束力和可执行的承诺。
3．认证应当是自愿的，而且可以通过透明程序而获得。
4．根据本条而进行的认证，不能减轻控制者或处理者遵循本条例的责任，而且也不对第55条或56条所规定的有权监管机构的任务和权利产生影响。
5．符合本条的认证应当为第43条所规定的认证机构所批准，应当建立在第58（3）条的有权监管机构或第63条的欧盟数据保护委员会所批准的标准之上。当标准被欧盟数据保护委员会所批准，这可以产生一个通用性认证——欧盟数据保护印章。
6．那些将其处理提交认证机制的控制者或处理者，应当将进行认证程序所必需的所有信息与访问权提交给第43条规定的认证机构，在适用的情形下，还应当提交给有权监管机构。
7．颁发给控制者或处理者的认证的有效期最长是三年，如果相关条件满足，同样的情形下有效期可以延长。当认证的条件不满足或不再满足时，在适用的情形下，第43条规定的认证实体或有权监管机构可以撤回认证。
8．欧盟数据保护委员会应当核查所有已登记的验证机制、数据保护印章和标记，而且应当以恰当的方式使得公众能够获取。
Article 43 Certification bodies / 第43条 认证机构
Without prejudice to the tasks and powers of the competent supervisory authority under Articles 57 and 58, certification bodies which have an appropriate level of expertise in relation to data protection shall, after informing the supervisory authority in order to allow it to exercise its powers pursuant to point (h) of Article 58(2) where necessary, issue and renew certification. Member States shall ensure that those certification bodies are accredited by one or both of the following:
the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 55 or 56;
the national accreditation body named in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (20) in accordance with EN-ISO/IEC 17065/2012 and with the additional requirements established by the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 55 or 56.
Certification bodies referred to in paragraph 1 shall be accredited in accordance with that paragraph only where they have:
demonstrated their independence and expertise in relation to the subject-matter of the certification to the satisfaction of the competent supervisory authority;
undertaken to respect the criteria referred to in Article 42(5) and approved by the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 55 or 56 or by the Board pursuant to Article 63;
established procedures for the issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of data protection certification, seals and marks;
established procedures and structures to handle complaints about infringements of the certification or the manner in which the certification has been, or is being, implemented by the controller or processor, and to make those procedures and structures transparent to data subjects and the public; and
demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the competent supervisory authority, that their tasks and duties do not result in a conflict of interests.
The accreditation of certification bodies as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall take place on the basis of criteria approved by the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 55 or 56 or by the Board pursuant to Article 63. In the case of accreditation pursuant to point (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article, those requirements shall complement those envisaged in Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 and the technical rules that describe the methods and procedures of the certification bodies.
The certification bodies referred to in paragraph 1 shall be responsible for the proper assessment leading to the certification or the withdrawal of such certification without prejudice to the responsibility of the controller or processor for compliance with this Regulation. The accreditation shall be issued for a maximum period of five years and may be renewed on the same conditions provided that the certification body meets the requirements set out in this Article.
The certification bodies referred to in paragraph 1 shall provide the competent supervisory authorities with the reasons for granting or withdrawing the requested certification.
The requirements referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and the criteria referred to in Article 42(5) shall be made public by the supervisory authority in an easily accessible form. The supervisory authorities shall also transmit those requirements and criteria to the Board. The Board shall collate all certification mechanisms and data protection seals in a register and shall make them publicly available by any appropriate means.
Without prejudice to Chapter VIII, the competent supervisory authority or the national accreditation body shall revoke an accreditation of a certification body pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article where the conditions for the accreditation are not, or are no longer, met or where actions taken by a certification body infringe this Regulation.
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 92 for the purpose of specifying the requirements to be taken into account for the data protection certification mechanisms referred to in Article 42(1).
The Commission may adopt implementing acts laying down technical standards for certification mechanisms and data protection seals and marks, and mechanisms to promote and recognise those certification mechanisms, seals and marks. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2).
1．在不影响第57条和第58条规定的有权监管机构的任务与权利的前提下，具有相应专业性的认证机构可以在告知监管机构后——以便监管机构可以行使第58（2）点h点所规定的权利——颁发和更新认证。成员国应当确保这些认证机构是如下一个机构认可或两个机构同时认可的：
(a)第55或56条所规定的有权监管机构；
(b)按照欧洲议会和理事会的(EC)No765/2008条例、EN-ISO/IEC 17065/2012设定的，以及满足第55条或第56条的有权监管机构所规定的额外要求的全国性认证机构。
2．只有存在如下情形时，第1段所规定的认证机构才能根据第1段的规定被认证：
(a)已经证明在准则所规定事项方面具有独立性与专业性，满足有权监管机构的要求；
(b)采取措施遵从第42（5）条所规定的标准，并且已经为第55条所规定的有权监管机构或第63条规定的欧盟数据保护委员会所批准；
(c)建立了发行、定期审查和撤回数据保护认证、印章和标记的程序；
(d)已经设立了解决关于违反准则，或关于控制者或处理者已经实施、或正在实施准则的方式的申诉程序和体系，并且数据主体和公众已知悉此类程序和体系；且
(e)已经表明其符合有权监管机构的要求，其任务和职责不存在利益冲突的情形。
3．第1段和第2段所规定的委任认证机构应当建立在第55条或第66条所规定的有权监管机构所批准的基础性标准之上，或者第63条所规定的欧盟数据保护委员会所批准的基础性标准之上。对于本条第1段（b）点所规定的授权，此类要求应当补充(EC) No 765/2008指令所设想的要求，以及描述认证机构方法与程序的技术性规则。
4．在不影响控制者或处理者对本条例的遵守的前提下，第1段所规定的认证机构应当负责颁发认证或撤销此类认证的有效评估。颁发给控制者或处理者的认证的有效期最长是五年，如果相关条件满足，同样的情形下有效期可以延长。
5．第1段所规定的验证机构应当向有权监管机构报告颁发或撤销所要求认证的理由。
6．监管机构应当以容易获取的方式公开本条第3段所规定的要求，以及第42（5）段所规定的标准。监管机构还应当将那些要求和标准传输给欧盟数据保护委员会。欧盟数据保护委员会应当核查所有登记的认证机制与数据保护印章，而且应当通过某种恰当的方式将它们公开。
7．在不影响第八章的前提下，当认证的条件不符合或不再符合，或者当认证机构所采取的行为侵犯了本条例，有权监管机构或全国性的认证机构应当取消根据本条第1段对认证机构的认证。
8．为了细化第42（1）条所规定的数据保护验证机制所需要考虑的条件，欧盟委员会有权制定符合第92条的授权法案。
9．欧盟委员会可以制定实施法案，为验证机制与数据保护印章、标记与机制设定技术标准，以便促进和认可那些验证机制、印章与标记。此类实施法条的制定应当符合第94（2）条所规定的验证程序。
CHAPTER V Transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations / 第五章 将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织
Article 44 General principle for transfers / 第44条 转移的一般性原则
Any transfer of personal data which are undergoing processing or are intended for processing after transfer to a third country or to an international organisation shall take place only if, subject to the other provisions of this Regulation, the conditions laid down in this Chapter are complied with by the controller and processor, including for onward transfers of personal data from the third country or an international organisation to another third country or to another international organisation. All provisions in this Chapter shall be applied in order to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by this Regulation is not undermined.
对于正在处理或计划进行处理的个人数据，将其转移到第三国或国际组织，包括将个人数据从第三国或国际组织转移到另一第三国或另一国际组织，控制者和处理者只有满足本条例的其他条款，以及满足本章规定的条件才能进行转移。为了保证本条例对于自然人的保护程度不会被削弱，本章的所有条款都应当被遵守。
Article 45 Transfers on the basis of an adequacy decision / 第45条 基于认定具有充足保护的转移
A transfer of personal data to a third country or an international organisation may take place where the Commission has decided that the third country, a territory or one or more specified sectors within that third country, or the international organisation in question ensures an adequate level of protection. Such a transfer shall not require any specific authorisation.
When assessing the adequacy of the level of protection, the Commission shall, in particular, take account of the following elements:
the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, relevant legislation, both general and sectoral, including concerning public security, defence, national security and criminal law and the access of public authorities to personal data, as well as the implementation of such legislation, data protection rules, professional rules and security measures, including rules for the onward transfer of personal data to another third country or international organisation which are complied with in that country or international organisation, case-law, as well as effective and enforceable data subject rights and effective administrative and judicial redress for the data subjects whose personal data are being transferred;
the existence and effective functioning of one or more independent supervisory authorities in the third country or to which an international organisation is subject, with responsibility for ensuring and enforcing compliance with the data protection rules, including adequate enforcement powers, for assisting and advising the data subjects in exercising their rights and for cooperation with the supervisory authorities of the Member States; and
the international commitments the third country or international organisation concerned has entered into, or other obligations arising from legally binding conventions or instruments as well as from its participation in multilateral or regional systems, in particular in relation to the protection of personal data.
The Commission, after assessing the adequacy of the level of protection, may decide, by means of implementing act, that a third country, a territory or one or more specified sectors within a third country, or an international organisation ensures an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2 of this Article. The implementing act shall provide for a mechanism for a periodic review, at least every four years, which shall take into account all relevant developments in the third country or international organisation. The implementing act shall specify its territorial and sectoral application and, where applicable, identify the supervisory authority or authorities referred to in point (b) of paragraph 2 of this Article. The implementing act shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2).
The Commission shall, on an ongoing basis, monitor developments in third countries and international organisations that could affect the functioning of decisions adopted pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article and decisions adopted on the basis of Article 25(6) of Directive 95/46/EC.
The Commission shall, where available information reveals, in particular following the review referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, that a third country, a territory or one or more specified sectors within a third country, or an international organisation no longer ensures an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2 of this Article, to the extent necessary, repeal, amend or suspend the decision referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article by means of implementing acts without retro-active effect. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2).
On duly justified imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission shall adopt immediately applicable implementing acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 93(3).
The Commission shall enter into consultations with the third country or international organisation with a view to remedying the situation giving rise to the decision made pursuant to paragraph 5.
A decision pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Article is without prejudice to transfers of personal data to the third country, a territory or one or more specified sectors within that third country, or the international organisation in question pursuant to Articles 46 to 49.
The Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union and on its website a list of the third countries, territories and specified sectors within a third country and international organisations for which it has decided that an adequate level of protection is or is no longer ensured.
Decisions adopted by the Commission on the basis of Article 25(6) of Directive 95/46/EC shall remain in force until amended, replaced or repealed by a Commission Decision adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 or 5 of this Article.
1．当欧盟委员会作出认定，认为相关的第三国、第三国中的某区域或一个或多个特定部门、或国际组织具有充足保护，可以将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织。此类转移不需要特定的授权。
2．当评估保护程度的充足性时，欧盟委员会应当特别考虑如下因素：
(a)法治、对人权与基本自由的尊重、包括关于公共安全、国防、国家安全、刑法和公共机构访问个人数据的一般性与部门性立法，以及此类立法的实施、数据保护规则、职业规则和安全措施，包括将个人数据转移到另一第三国或国际组织所必须遵循的第三国或国际组织的规则、判例法以及有效可执行的数据主体权利、对其个人数据正在转移的数据主体的司法救济；
(b)在国际组织是主体的情形中，第三国内存在一个或多个有效运作的独立监管机构，保证数据保护规则的实施，包括具有充分的执行权力，在数据主体行使其权利时和与成员国的监管机构合作时提供帮助和建议；
(c)第三国或国际组织已经许下的国际性承诺，或者承诺愿意承担有法律约束力的条约或法律文件所引起的其它责任，以及参加多边或地区性的体系，特别是和数据保护相关的体系所引起的其它责任。
3．在评估了保护程度的充足性之后，欧盟委员会可以通过制定实施性法案，确定本条第2段含义内的第三国、第三国内的领地或一个或多个特定部门或一个国际组织是否具有充足的保护。实施性法案应当提供一种周期性审查，至少每四年对第三国或国际组织的所有相关发展进行审查。实施性法案应当细化其领域性与部门性的实施，以及在适用的情况下确定本条第2段（b）点所规定的一个或多个监管机构。实施性法案的制定应当遵循第93（2）条所规定的验证程序。
4．欧盟委员会应当持续性地监控第三国或国际组织的某些可能会影响根据本条第3款而作出的决定和建立在95/46/EC指令第25（6）条基础之上的决定发挥作用的某些发展。
5．当已有信息显示，第三国或第三国内的一个或多个特殊部门或国际组织不再提供本条第2段所规定的充足的保护，欧盟委员会应当——尤其是在经过第3段所规定的核查后——通过制定不具有溯及力的实施性法案，在必要限度内废止、修正或中止本条第3段所规定的决定。此类实施性法案的制定应当遵循第93（2）条所规定的验证程序。
在具有高度正当性的紧急状态情形中，欧盟委员会应当立即根据第93（3）条规定的程序而制定实施性法案。
6．为了补救导致第5条决定的情形，欧盟委员会应当与第三国或国际组织磋商。
7．符合本条第5段的决定不会影响到将个人数据转移到第三国、第三国内的领地或一个或多个部门、或者第46条至49条所规定的相关国际组织。
8．欧盟委员会应当在欧盟的官方杂志及其网站上发表名单，列明其确定已经具备充足保护或不再具有充足保护的第三国、第三国内的特定部门和国际组织。
9．欧盟委员会在95/46/EC指令第25（6）条基础上而做出的决定，在被欧盟委员会根据本条第3段或第5段而修改、替代或废止前应具有效力。
Article 46 Transfers subject to appropriate safeguards / 第46条 转移所需要的适当安全保障
In the absence of a decision pursuant to Article 45(3), a controller or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or an international organisation only if the controller or processor has provided appropriate safeguards, and on condition that enforceable data subject rights and effective legal remedies for data subjects are available.
The appropriate safeguards referred to in paragraph 1 may be provided for, without requiring any specific authorisation from a supervisory authority, by:
a legally binding and enforceable instrument between public authorities or bodies;
binding corporate rules in accordance with Article 47;
standard data protection clauses adopted by the Commission in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2);
standard data protection clauses adopted by a supervisory authority and approved by the Commission pursuant to the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2);
an approved code of conduct pursuant to Article 40 together with binding and enforceable commitments of the controller or processor in the third country to apply the appropriate safeguards, including as regards data subjects’ rights; or
an approved certification mechanism pursuant to Article 42 together with binding and enforceable commitments of the controller or processor in the third country to apply the appropriate safeguards, including as regards data subjects’ rights.
Subject to the authorisation from the competent supervisory authority, the appropriate safeguards referred to in paragraph 1 may also be provided for, in particular, by:
contractual clauses between the controller or processor and the controller, processor or the recipient of the personal data in the third country or international organisation; or
provisions to be inserted into administrative arrangements between public authorities or bodies which include enforceable and effective data subject rights.
The supervisory authority shall apply the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63 in the cases referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article.
Authorisations by a Member State or supervisory authority on the basis of Article 26(2) of Directive 95/46/EC shall remain valid until amended, replaced or repealed, if necessary, by that supervisory authority. Decisions adopted by the Commission on the basis of Article 26(4) of Directive 95/46/EC shall remain in force until amended, replaced or repealed, if necessary, by a Commission Decision adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article.
1．如果没有根据第45（3）条而做出的决定，控制者或处理者只有提供适当的保障措施，以及为数据主体提供可执行的权利与有效的法律救济措施，才能将个人数据转移到第三国或一个国际组织。
2．在不要求监管机构提供任何具体授权的情形下，第1段所规定的适当保障措施可以如下方式提供：
(a)公共机构或实体之间之间签订的具有法律约束力和可执行性的文件；
(b)符合第47条的有约束力的公司规则；
(c)欧盟委员会根据第93（2）条规定的核查程序而制定的数据保护标准条款；
(d)监管机构根据第93（2）条规定的核查程序制定并且为欧盟委员会批准的数据保护标准条款；
(e)根据第40条制定的行为准则，以及第三国的控制者或处理者为了采取合适的安全保障而做出的具有约束力和执行力的承诺，包括数据主体的权利；或者
(f)根据第42条而被批准的验证机制，以及第三国的控制者或处理者为了采取合适的安全保障而做出的具有约束力和执行力的承诺，包括数据主体的权利。
3．在需要有权监管机构授权的情形下，第1段所规定的合适安全措施尤其可以通过如下方式进行规定：
(a)控制者或处理者与控制者、处理者或第三国或国际组织的个人数据接收者之间的合同条款；或者
(b)公共机构或公共实体之间在行政性安排中所插入的条款，包括可执行的与有效的数据主体权利。
4．在本条第3段所规定的情形中，监管机构应当适用第63段所规定的一致性机制。
5．成员国或监管机构根据95/46/EC指令的第26（2）条而做出的授权，在被监管机构修改、替代或废止之前应当一直有效。欧盟委员会根据95/46/EC指令第26（4）条而做出的决定，在欧盟委员会按照本条第2段做出必要性的修改、替换或废止决定前应当一直有效。
Article 47 Binding corporate rules / 第47条 有约束力的公司规则
The competent supervisory authority shall approve binding corporate rules in accordance with the consistency mechanism set out in Article 63, provided that they:
are legally binding and apply to and are enforced by every member concerned of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, including their employees;
expressly confer enforceable rights on data subjects with regard to the processing of their personal data; and
fulfil the requirements laid down in paragraph 2.
The binding corporate rules referred to in paragraph 1 shall specify at least:
the structure and contact details of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity and of each of its members;
the data transfers or set of transfers, including the categories of personal data, the type of processing and its purposes, the type of data subjects affected and the identification of the third country or countries in question;
their legally binding nature, both internally and externally;
the application of the general data protection principles, in particular purpose limitation, data minimisation, limited storage periods, data quality, data protection by design and by default, legal basis for processing, processing of special categories of personal data, measures to ensure data security, and the requirements in respect of onward transfers to bodies not bound by the binding corporate rules;
the rights of data subjects in regard to processing and the means to exercise those rights, including the right not to be subject to decisions based solely on automated processing, including profiling in accordance with Article 22, the right to lodge a complaint with the competent supervisory authority and before the competent courts of the Member States in accordance with Article 79, and to obtain redress and, where appropriate, compensation for a breach of the binding corporate rules;
the acceptance by the controller or processor established on the territory of a Member State of liability for any breaches of the binding corporate rules by any member concerned not established in the Union; the controller or the processor shall be exempt from that liability, in whole or in part, only if it proves that that member is not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage;
how the information on the binding corporate rules, in particular on the provisions referred to in points (d), (e) and (f) of this paragraph is provided to the data subjects in addition to Articles 13 and 14;
the tasks of any data protection officer designated in accordance with Article 37 or any other person or entity in charge of the monitoring compliance with the binding corporate rules within the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, as well as monitoring training and complaint-handling;
the complaint procedures;
the mechanisms within the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity for ensuring the verification of compliance with the binding corporate rules. Such mechanisms shall include data protection audits and methods for ensuring corrective actions to protect the rights of the data subject. Results of such verification should be communicated to the person or entity referred to in point (h) and to the board of the controlling undertaking of a group of undertakings, or of the group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, and should be available upon request to the competent supervisory authority;
the mechanisms for reporting and recording changes to the rules and reporting those changes to the supervisory authority;
the cooperation mechanism with the supervisory authority to ensure compliance by any member of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, in particular by making available to the supervisory authority the results of verifications of the measures referred to in point (j);
the mechanisms for reporting to the competent supervisory authority any legal requirements to which a member of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity is subject in a third country which are likely to have a substantial adverse effect on the guarantees provided by the binding corporate rules; and
the appropriate data protection training to personnel having permanent or regular access to personal data.
The Commission may specify the format and procedures for the exchange of information between controllers, processors and supervisory authorities for binding corporate rules within the meaning of this Article. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure set out in Article 93(2).
1．在满足如下条件时，对于符合第63条所规定的一致性机制的有约束力的公司规则，有权监管机关应当批准：
(a)具有法律约束力，适用于进行联合经济活动的企业集团或一系列经济主体的所有相关成员——包括其雇员，并且为他们所执行。
(b)在处理个人数据方面明确赋予数据主体以可执行的权利；以及
(c)满足第2段所规定的要求。
2．第1段所规定的有约束力的规则应当至少明确：
(a)进行联合经济活动的企业集团或一系列经济主体，及其每一个成员的架构和详细联系方式；
(b)数据转移或一系列的数据转移，包括个人数据的类型；处理类型及其目的；受影响的数据主体的类型；以及涉及到的对第三国或多个第三国的确定；
(c)规则的法律约束效力，既包括内部的约束力，也包括外部的约束力；
(d)对一般数据保护原则的适用，特别是目的限定、数据最小化、有限的储存期限、数据质量、通过设计的数据保护与默认的数据保护、处理的法律基础、对特定类型个人数据的处理；保障数据安全的措施；以及将数据转移到不受约束性公司规则所约束的实体所做的要求；
(e)和处理相关的数据主体的权利以及行使这些权利的方式，包括有权不被仅仅根据自动化处理——包括符合第22条的用户画像——而对数据主体做出决定，有权按照第79条向有权监管机构和成员国的有权管辖的法庭申诉，以及有权在违反有约束力的公司规则的情形下获取救济和——如果适用的话——赔偿；
(f)对于任何不在欧盟设立的控制者或处理者的相关成员违反约束性公司规则，在成员国的领域内设立的控制者或处理者愿意承担责任；只有当控制者或处理者证明，该成员对于导致损害的事件没有责任，控制者或处理者的此种责任才能被免除；
(g)关于约束性公司规则的信息如何提供给数据主体，特别是第13和14条之外关于本段所规定的(d)(e)(f)点的信息如何提供给数据主体；
(h)根据第37条所委任的所有数据保护官的任务，或者企业集团、或进行联合经济活动的一系列经济主体内部负责监控遵守约束性公司规则、监控培训和处置申诉的所有人或实体的任务；
(i)申诉程序；
(j)企业集团或进行联合经济活动的一系列经济主体，为了核实对约束性公司规则的遵守的而在内部所设立机制。此类机制应当包括数据保护核查以及能够确保采取矫正性活动保护数据主体权利的方法。此类核实结果应当告知（h）点所规定的个人或实体，企业集团或进行联合经济活动的一系列经济主体，而且在有权监管机构的要求下应当能够提供其核实结果；
(k)报告和记录规则变化的机制，以及将此类变化报告给监管机构的机制；
(l)为了保证企业集团或进行联合经济活动的一系列经济主体的合规性而和监管机构一起设立的合作机制，特别是向监管机构提供（j）点所规定的方法的核查结果；
(m)企业集团或进行联合经济活动的一系列经济主体的成员是第三国的主体，可能会对约束性企业规则所提供的保障产生实质性的负面影响，向有权监管机构报告对此类主体是否有法律要求的机制；以及
(n)对于可永久性或经常性访问个人数据的员工进行的适当数据保护培训。
3．欧盟委员会可以明确控制者、处理者和监管机构之间为了本条含义内的约束性公司规则而进行信息交换的形式和程序。此类实施性法案的制定应当遵循第93（2）条所规定的验证程序。
Article 48 Transfers or disclosures not authorised by Union law / 第48条 未经欧盟法授权的转移或披露
Any judgment of a court or tribunal and any decision of an administrative authority of a third country requiring a controller or processor to transfer or disclose personal data may only be recognised or enforceable in any manner if based on an international agreement, such as a mutual legal assistance treaty, in force between the requesting third country and the Union or a Member State, without prejudice to other grounds for transfer pursuant to this Chapter.
任何法庭判决、仲裁裁决或第三国行政机构的决定，若要求控制者或处理者对个人数据进行转移或披露，同时满足以下条件时方能得到认可或执行：一是该判决、裁决或决定必须基于提出请求的第三国与欧盟或其成员国之间订立的法律互助协议等国际条约，二是该判决、裁决或决定不会对本章规定的其他转移形式产生消极影响。
Article 49 Derogations for specific situations / 第49条 特殊情形下的克减
In the absence of an adequacy decision pursuant to Article 45(3), or of appropriate safeguards pursuant to Article 46, including binding corporate rules, a transfer or a set of transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organisation shall take place only on one of the following conditions:
the data subject has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer, after having been informed of the possible risks of such transfers for the data subject due to the absence of an adequacy decision and appropriate safeguards;
the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the controller or the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken at the data subject’s request;
the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract concluded in the interest of the data subject between the controller and another natural or legal person;
the transfer is necessary for important reasons of public interest;
the transfer is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims;
the transfer is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of other persons, where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent;
the transfer is made from a register which according to Union or Member State law is intended to provide information to the public and which is open to consultation either by the public in general or by any person who can demonstrate a legitimate interest, but only to the extent that the conditions laid down by Union or Member State law for consultation are fulfilled in the particular case.
Where a transfer could not be based on a provision in Article 45 or 46, including the provisions on binding corporate rules, and none of the derogations for a specific situation referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph is applicable, a transfer to a third country or an international organisation may take place only if the transfer is not repetitive, concerns only a limited number of data subjects, is necessary for the purposes of compelling legitimate interests pursued by the controller which are not overridden by the interests or rights and freedoms of the data subject, and the controller has assessed all the circumstances surrounding the data transfer and has on the basis of that assessment provided suitable safeguards with regard to the protection of personal data. The controller shall inform the supervisory authority of the transfer. The controller shall, in addition to providing the information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, inform the data subject of the transfer and on the compelling legitimate interests pursued.
A transfer pursuant to point (g) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall not involve the entirety of the personal data or entire categories of the personal data contained in the register. Where the register is intended for consultation by persons having a legitimate interest, the transfer shall be made only at the request of those persons or if they are to be the recipients.
Points (a), (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 and the second subparagraph thereof shall not apply to activities carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their public powers.
The public interest referred to in point (d) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall be recognised in Union law or in the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.
In the absence of an adequacy decision, Union or Member State law may, for important reasons of public interest, expressly set limits to the transfer of specific categories of personal data to a third country or an international organisation. Member States shall notify such provisions to the Commission.
The controller or processor shall document the assessment as well as the suitable safeguards referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article in the records referred to in Article 30.
1．如果不存在根据第45（3）而做出的充足保护认定或根据第46条而制定的适当安全措施——包括约束性公司规则，将个人数据转移到第三国或国际机构，只有满足如下情形之一才能进行：
(a)数据主体被明确告知，不存在充足保护或适当的安全措施，预期的数据转移存在风险，但之后数据主体仍然明确表示同意预期的数据转移；
(b)转移对于履行数据主体与控制者之间的合同，或者履行数据主体在签订契约前所提出要求是必要的；
(c)控制者和另一自然人或法人之间签订或履行合同时，转移对于实现数据主体的利益是必要的；
(d)转移对于实现公共利益是必要的；
(e)转移对于确立、行使或辩护法律性主张是必要的；
(f)当数据主体基于身体性或法律性原因无法表达同意，为了保护数据主体或其他人的关键利益是必要的；
(g)转移是根据登记册而进行的——这种登记册是欧盟法或成员国法律为了向具有正当利益的一般性公众或个人提供咨询。但是，只有满足欧盟法或成员国法对咨询所规定必要条件，此类个案中的转移才能进行克减。
当转移无法基于第45或第46条，包括基于约束性公司规则的条款的规定而进行，且从（a）点到（g）的克减条件都不符合，将数据转移到第三国或国际组织，这只有在转移满足如下条件时才可以：转移是非重复性的；关乎很小一部分数据主体的权利；对于实现控制者压倒性的正当利益是必要的，并且不会违反数据主体的有限性的利益或权利与自由；控制者已经对围绕数据传输的情形进行评估，而且基于这种评估对个人数据保护采取了合适的安全保障。控制者除了提供第13条和第14条所规定的信息之外，应当将转移和追求的压倒性正当利益告知数据主体。
2．符合第1段（g）点的转移不应当包括登记册里的全部个人数据或所有类型的个人数据。当登记册是为了给具有正当利益的人提供咨询的，只有那些人提出要求，或者那些人是接收者的情形才能进行转移。
3．对于公共机构在行使其公共权力时的活动，第1段的（a）（b）（c）点以及第1段的第二分段不适用。
4．第1段（d）点规定的公共利益应当为欧盟或成员国为控制者所制定的法律所确认。
5．如果不存在充足保护的认定，欧盟或成员国的法律可以基于公共利益而明确做出限制，限制将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织的特定类型。成员国应当将此类条款告知欧盟委员会。
6．控制者或处理者应当在第30条规定的档案中记录本条第1段第二分段所规定的评估以及合适的安全措施。
Article 50 International cooperation for the protection of personal data / 第50条 为保护个人数据的国际合作
In relation to third countries and international organisations, the Commission and supervisory authorities shall take appropriate steps to:
develop international cooperation mechanisms to facilitate the effective enforcement of legislation for the protection of personal data;
provide international mutual assistance in the enforcement of legislation for the protection of personal data, including through notification, complaint referral, investigative assistance and information exchange, subject to appropriate safeguards for the protection of personal data and other fundamental rights and freedoms;
engage relevant stakeholders in discussion and activities aimed at furthering international cooperation in the enforcement of legislation for the protection of personal data;
promote the exchange and documentation of personal data protection legislation and practice, including on jurisdictional conflicts with third countries.
在涉及到第三国或国际组织的情形中，欧盟委员会和监管机构应当采取合适的措施以：
(a)发展国际合作机制，以便促进对个人数据保护立法的有效实施；
(b)在采取合适安全措施保障个人数据保护和其它基本权利与自由的前提下，通过告知、申诉转介、调查帮助和信息互换为个人数据保护立法的实施提供国际性互助；
(c)在实施个人数据保护立法中，使相关利益方密切参与为了进一步国际合作而进行的讨论和活动；
(d)促进个人数据立法与实践——包括与第三国管辖权冲突——的交换与记录。
CHAPTER VI Independent supervisory authorities / 第六章 独立监管机构
Section 1 Independent status / 第一部分 独立性地位
Article 51 Supervisory authority / 第51条 监管机构
Each Member State shall provide for one or more independent public authorities to be responsible for monitoring the application of this Regulation, in order to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons in relation to processing and to facilitate the free flow of personal data within the Union (‘supervisory authority’).
Each supervisory authority shall contribute to the consistent application of this Regulation throughout the Union. For that purpose, the supervisory authorities shall cooperate with each other and the Commission in accordance with Chapter VII.
Where more than one supervisory authority is established in a Member State, that Member State shall designate the supervisory authority which is to represent those authorities in the Board and shall set out the mechanism to ensure compliance by the other authorities with the rules relating to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63.
Each Member State shall notify to the Commission the provisions of its law which it adopts pursuant to this Chapter, by 25 May 2018 and, without delay, any subsequent amendment affecting them.
1．为了保护自然人在处理过程中的基本权利与自由，以及促进欧盟内部的个人数据的自由流通，每个成员国应当建立一个或多个独立公共机构，负责监控本条例的实施。
2．每个监管机构都应当帮助本条例在欧盟的一致性适用。基于这种目的，监管机构应当按照第七章的规定彼此合作以及和欧盟委员会合作。
3．当一个成员国确立了不止一个监管机构，该成员国应当在欧盟数据保护委员会委任一个监管机构代表其他机构，而且应当建立一套机制，保证其他机构遵守第63条规定的一致性机制相关的规则。
4．每个成员国都应当将其根据本章所制定的法律条款告知欧盟委员会，[最迟应当在本条例生效的两年内]，而且应当及时将影响条款的修订告知欧盟委员会。
Article 52 Independence / 第52条 独立性
Each supervisory authority shall act with complete independence in performing its tasks and exercising its powers in accordance with this Regulation.
The member or members of each supervisory authority shall, in the performance of their tasks and exercise of their powers in accordance with this Regulation, remain free from external influence, whether direct or indirect, and shall neither seek nor take instructions from anybody.
Member or members of each supervisory authority shall refrain from any action incompatible with their duties and shall not, during their term of office, engage in any incompatible occupation, whether gainful or not.
Each Member State shall ensure that each supervisory authority is provided with the human, technical and financial resources, premises and infrastructure necessary for the effective performance of its tasks and exercise of its powers, including those to be carried out in the context of mutual assistance, cooperation and participation in the Board.
Each Member State shall ensure that each supervisory authority chooses and has its own staff which shall be subject to the exclusive direction of the member or members of the supervisory authority concerned.
Each Member State shall ensure that each supervisory authority is subject to financial control which does not affect its independence and that it has separate, public annual budgets, which may be part of the overall state or national budget.
1．每个监管机构在行使其任务和行使符合本条例的权力时，应当保持完全的独立性。
2．每个监管机构的一个或多个成员在行使其任务和行使符合本条例的权力时，应当不受外部影响，不论是直接的还是间接性的，而且不应接收任何人的指示。
3．监管机构的成员不得从事违反其监管职责的活动，任职期间不得担任任何与其监管工作相冲突的有偿或无偿的职务。
4．每个成员国都必须确保，每个监管机构都具有为了有效履行其任务和行使其权利——包括在欧盟数据保护委员会中互助、合作和参与的履行任务和行使权利——所必需的人力性、技术性与资金资源，前提性与基础性要素。
5．每个成员国都应当确保，每个监管机构都具有选择和雇佣其成员的权力，这只受相关监管机构的一个或多个成员的专门指令的约束。
6．每个成员国都必须确保，在不影响其独立性以及其具有单独和公共性的年度预算的前提下，每个监管机构都受资金控制——此类资金控制可能是州预算或国家预算一部分的——的约束。
Article 53 General conditions for the members of the supervisory authority / 第53条 监管机构成员的一般性要求
Member States shall provide for each member of their supervisory authorities to be appointed by means of a transparent procedure by:
—
their parliament;
—
their government;
—
their head of State; or
—
an independent body entrusted with the appointment under Member State law.
Each member shall have the qualifications, experience and skills, in particular in the area of the protection of personal data, required to perform its duties and exercise its powers.
The duties of a member shall end in the event of the expiry of the term of office, resignation or compulsory retirement, in accordance with the law of the Member State concerned.
A member shall be dismissed only in cases of serious misconduct or if the member no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of the duties.
1．成员国应当通过如下机构以透明化的方式委任其监管机构的每个成员：
-它们的议会；
-它们的政府；
-它们的国家元首；或者
-成员国法律指派的独立性实体。
2．每个成员都应当具有履行其职责和行使其权力所应当具有的资质、经验与技巧，特别是在个人数据保护领域的资质、经验与技巧。
3．成员根据成员国的相关法律结束其任期、辞职或强制性退休时，其职责也相应结束。
4．只有存在严重的不当行为，或者不再符合履行其职责的条件时，成员才可以被解职。
Article 54 Rules on the establishment of the supervisory authority / 第54条 设立监管机构的规则
Each Member State shall provide by law for all of the following:
the establishment of each supervisory authority;
the qualifications and eligibility conditions required to be appointed as member of each supervisory authority;
the rules and procedures for the appointment of the member or members of each supervisory authority;
the duration of the term of the member or members of each supervisory authority of no less than four years, except for the first appointment after 24 May 2016, part of which may take place for a shorter period where that is necessary to protect the independence of the supervisory authority by means of a staggered appointment procedure;
whether and, if so, for how many terms the member or members of each supervisory authority is eligible for reappointment;
the conditions governing the obligations of the member or members and staff of each supervisory authority, prohibitions on actions, occupations and benefits incompatible therewith during and after the term of office and rules governing the cessation of employment.
The member or members and the staff of each supervisory authority shall, in accordance with Union or Member State law, be subject to a duty of professional secrecy both during and after their term of office, with regard to any confidential information which has come to their knowledge in the course of the performance of their tasks or exercise of their powers. During their term of office, that duty of professional secrecy shall in particular apply to reporting by natural persons of infringements of this Regulation.
1．每个成员国都应当通过法律规定如下事项：
(a)每个监管机构的设立；
(b)被任命为每个监管机构的成员所需要的资质与合适的条件；
(c)任命每个监管机构的一个或多个成员的规则和程序；
(d)每个监管机构的一个或多个成员的不少于四年的任期，（在此条例生效之后的第一次任命例外），如果有必要通过间断性的任命程序来保护监管机构的独立性，一部分成员的任期可以更短；
(e)每个监管机构的一个或多个成员是否可以连任，如果可以的话，可以连任多少个任期；
(f)每个监管机构的成员和员工需要负责的情形，对于其任期内或任期结束后的具有冲突性的行为、任职和收益的禁止条款，以及中止雇佣的规则。
2．每个监管机构的成员和员工都应当遵循欧盟或成员国的法律，对于其履行任务或行使其权力期间所获取的秘密信息，在任职期间或任期结束后都具有保守职业秘密的职责。尤其在自然人报告具有违反本条例的情形下，成员或员工应当履行其保守职业秘密的职责。
Section 2 Competence, tasks and powers / 第二部分 职权、任务与权力
Article 55 Competence / 第55条 职权
Each supervisory authority shall be competent for the performance of the tasks assigned to and the exercise of the powers conferred on it in accordance with this Regulation on the territory of its own Member State.
Where processing is carried out by public authorities or private bodies acting on the basis of point (c) or (e) of Article 6(1), the supervisory authority of the Member State concerned shall be competent. In such cases Article 56 does not apply.
Supervisory authorities shall not be competent to supervise processing operations of courts acting in their judicial capacity.
1．每个监管机构都有权在其所属的成员国境内根据本条例履行分配给其的任务，行使授予其的权力。
2．当公共机构或私人实体基于第6（1）条的（c）或（e）点而进行处理，成员国的相关监管机构应当拥有职权。在此类情形中，第56条不适用。
3．对于法庭在其司法活动中进行处理操作，监管机构不具有监管职权。
Article 56 Competence of the lead supervisory authority / 第56条 领导性监管机构的职权
Without prejudice to Article 55, the supervisory authority of the main establishment or of the single establishment of the controller or processor shall be competent to act as lead supervisory authority for the cross-border processing carried out by that controller or processor in accordance with the procedure provided in Article 60.
By derogation from paragraph 1, each supervisory authority shall be competent to handle a complaint lodged with it or a possible infringement of this Regulation, if the subject matter relates only to an establishment in its Member State or substantially affects data subjects only in its Member State.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the supervisory authority shall inform the lead supervisory authority without delay on that matter. Within a period of three weeks after being informed the lead supervisory authority shall decide whether or not it will handle the case in accordance with the procedure provided in Article 60, taking into account whether or not there is an establishment of the controller or processor in the Member State of which the supervisory authority informed it.
Where the lead supervisory authority decides to handle the case, the procedure provided in Article 60 shall apply. The supervisory authority which informed the lead supervisory authority may submit to the lead supervisory authority a draft for a decision. The lead supervisory authority shall take utmost account of that draft when preparing the draft decision referred to in Article 60(3).
Where the lead supervisory authority decides not to handle the case, the supervisory authority which informed the lead supervisory authority shall handle it according to Articles 61 and 62.
The lead supervisory authority shall be the sole interlocutor of the controller or processor for the cross-border processing carried out by that controller or processor.
1．在不影响第55条的前提下，控制者或处理者的主要营业机构或唯一营业机构所在地的监管机构应可以充当领导性监管机构，监管控制者或处理者根据第60条程序而进行的跨境处理。
2．第1段的规定可以进行减免，如果主要事项只和成员国内的一个机构相关，或者只在一个成员国内对数据主体产生实质性影响，每个监管机构应当都有权对向其进行的申诉或违反本条例的行为进行处置。
3．对于第2段所规定的情形，监管机构应当将此事项及时告知领导性监管机构。在被告知的三个星期以内，领导性的监管机构应当——结合控制者或处理者是否在通知其的监管机构所在的成员国内有拥有机构——决定，其是否要根据第60条的规定的程序而处置该案例。
4．当领导性监管机构决定处理案件，第60条所规定的程序应当适用。那个告知领导性监管机构的监管机构可以向领导性监管机构提交一份决定草案。当领导性监管机构起草第60（3）条所规定的决定时，其应当尽最大限度地考虑提交的决定草案。
5．当领导性监管机构决定不处置案子，通知领导性监管机构的监管机构应当根据第61条和第62条进行处置。
6．对于控制者或处理者所进行的跨境处理，领导性监管机构应当是该控制者或处理者的唯一面谈者。
Article 57 Tasks / 第57条 任务
Without prejudice to other tasks set out under this Regulation, each supervisory authority shall on its territory:
monitor and enforce the application of this Regulation;
promote public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules, safeguards and rights in relation to processing. Activities addressed specifically to children shall receive specific attention;
advise, in accordance with Member State law, the national parliament, the government, and other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of natural persons’ rights and freedoms with regard to processing;
promote the awareness of controllers and processors of their obligations under this Regulation;
upon request, provide information to any data subject concerning the exercise of their rights under this Regulation and, if appropriate, cooperate with the supervisory authorities in other Member States to that end;
handle complaints lodged by a data subject, or by a body, organisation or association in accordance with Article 80, and investigate, to the extent appropriate, the subject matter of the complaint and inform the complainant of the progress and the outcome of the investigation within a reasonable period, in particular if further investigation or coordination with another supervisory authority is necessary;
cooperate with, including sharing information and provide mutual assistance to, other supervisory authorities with a view to ensuring the consistency of application and enforcement of this Regulation;
conduct investigations on the application of this Regulation, including on the basis of information received from another supervisory authority or other public authority;
monitor relevant developments, insofar as they have an impact on the protection of personal data, in particular the development of information and communication technologies and commercial practices;
adopt standard contractual clauses referred to in Article 28(8) and in point (d) of Article 46(2);
establish and maintain a list in relation to the requirement for data protection impact assessment pursuant to Article 35(4);
give advice on the processing operations referred to in Article 36(2);
encourage the drawing up of codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40(1) and provide an opinion and approve such codes of conduct which provide sufficient safeguards, pursuant to Article 40(5);
encourage the establishment of data protection certification mechanisms and of data protection seals and marks pursuant to Article 42(1), and approve the criteria of certification pursuant to Article 42(5);
where applicable, carry out a periodic review of certifications issued in accordance with Article 42(7);
draft and publish the criteria for accreditation of a body for monitoring codes of conduct pursuant to Article 41 and of a certification body pursuant to Article 43;
conduct the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes of conduct pursuant to Article 41 and of a certification body pursuant to Article 43;
authorise contractual clauses and provisions referred to in Article 46(3);
approve binding corporate rules pursuant to Article 47;
contribute to the activities of the Board;
keep internal records of infringements of this Regulation and of measures taken in accordance with Article 58(2); and
fulfil any other tasks related to the protection of personal data.
Each supervisory authority shall facilitate the submission of complaints referred to in point (f) of paragraph 1 by measures such as a complaint submission form which can also be completed electronically, without excluding other means of communication.
The performance of the tasks of each supervisory authority shall be free of charge for the data subject and, where applicable, for the data protection officer.
Where requests are manifestly unfounded or excessive, in particular because of their repetitive character, the supervisory authority may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative costs, or refuse to act on the request. The supervisory authority shall bear the burden of demonstrating the manifestly unfounded or excessive character of the request.
1．在不影响本条例规定的其他任务的前提下，在其管辖范围内，每个监管机构应当：
(a)监控和执行对本条例的实施；
(b)提高公众意识，对和处理相关的风险、规则、安全保障和权利的理解。对针对儿童的活动保持特别注意；
(c)根据成员国的法律、全国性议会、政府以及其他制度和实体对与处理相关的自然人的权利与自由提供建议；
(d)提高控制者与处理者对本条例所规定责任的意识；
基于要求为所有数据主体提供行使本条例所规定的权利，以及——如果适用的话——和其它成员国的监管机构为了实现这一目的而进行合作；
(f)处置数据主体或实体、组织或协会根据第80条的申诉，采用合适的手段调查申诉的主要事项，在合理期限内向申诉者告知进展和调查结论——特别是如果需要进一步的调查或和监管机构协调；
(g)为保证对本条例适用与执行的一致性和其他监管机构合作，包括分享信息和提供相互协助；
(h)为本条例的适用进行调查，包括基于另一监管机构或其它公共机构提供的信息而进行的调查；
(i)在相关发展——特别是信息和通讯技术、商业实践发展——对个人数据保护产生影响的情况下，对相关发展进行监控；
(j)采用第28（8）条和第46（2）条（d）点规定的标准格式合同；
(k)建立并维持和第35（4）条规定的个人数据保护影响评估相关的条目；
(l)对第36（2）条规定的处理操作给出建议；
(m)鼓励起草符合第40条的行为准则，对符合第40（5）条提供充分安全保障的此类行为准则提供意见并进行批准；
(n)鼓励设立数据保护认证机制以及符合第42（1）条的数据保护印章与标记，并批准符合第42（5）条的认证标准；
(o)在适用的情形下，对根据第42（7）条而颁发的认证进行阶段性审查；
(p)对符合第41条规定的监控行为准则的委派实体，以及符合第43条规定的认证实体，对其标准进行起草并发布；
(q)委任符合第41条规定的监控行为准则的实体，以及符合第43条规定的认证实体；
(r)授权合同条款与第46（3）条规定的条款；
(s)批准符合第47条的约束性合同规则；
(t)欧盟数据保护委员会的活动提供帮助；
(u)对违反本条例的情形以及根据第58（2）条而采取的措施保持内部纪录；并且
(v)完成和个人数据保护相关的其它任务。
2．每个监管机构都应当为第1段（f）点规定的提交申诉提供便利，例如在不排除其它通讯方式的前提下，提供可以通过电子方式填写和提交的申诉方式。
3．每个监管机构的任务履行对于数据主体都应当是免费的，如果适用的话，对于数据保护官也应当是免费的。
4．当请求是明显毫无根据的或过分的，特别是当请求是重复性的，监管可以基于行政花费而收取一定的合理费用，或拒绝对请求作出行动。监管机构有责任证明，请求是明显毫无根据的或过分的。
Article 58 Powers / 第58条 权力
Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following investigative powers:
to order the controller and the processor, and, where applicable, the controller’s or the processor’s representative to provide any information it requires for the performance of its tasks;
to carry out investigations in the form of data protection audits;
to carry out a review on certifications issued pursuant to Article 42(7);
to notify the controller or the processor of an alleged infringement of this Regulation;
to obtain, from the controller and the processor, access to all personal data and to all information necessary for the performance of its tasks;
to obtain access to any premises of the controller and the processor, including to any data processing equipment and means, in accordance with Union or Member State procedural law.
Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers:
to issue warnings to a controller or processor that intended processing operations are likely to infringe provisions of this Regulation;
to issue reprimands to a controller or a processor where processing operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation;
to order the controller or the processor to comply with the data subject’s requests to exercise his or her rights pursuant to this Regulation;
to order the controller or processor to bring processing operations into compliance with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period;
to order the controller to communicate a personal data breach to the data subject;
to impose a temporary or definitive limitation including a ban on processing;
to order the rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing pursuant to Articles 16, 17 and 18 and the notification of such actions to recipients to whom the personal data have been disclosed pursuant to Article 17(2) and Article 19;
to withdraw a certification or to order the certification body to withdraw a certification issued pursuant to Articles 42 and 43, or to order the certification body not to issue certification if the requirements for the certification are not or are no longer met;
to impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83, in addition to, or instead of measures referred to in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances of each individual case;
to order the suspension of data flows to a recipient in a third country or to an international organisation.
Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following authorisation and advisory powers:
to advise the controller in accordance with the prior consultation procedure referred to in Article 36;
to issue, on its own initiative or on request, opinions to the national parliament, the Member State government or, in accordance with Member State law, to other institutions and bodies as well as to the public on any issue related to the protection of personal data;
to authorise processing referred to in Article 36(5), if the law of the Member State requires such prior authorisation;
to issue an opinion and approve draft codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40(5);
to accredit certification bodies pursuant to Article 43;
to issue certifications and approve criteria of certification in accordance with Article 42(5);
to adopt standard data protection clauses referred to in Article 28(8) and in point (d) of Article 46(2);
to authorise contractual clauses referred to in point (a) of Article 46(3);
to authorise administrative arrangements referred to in point (b) of Article 46(3);
to approve binding corporate rules pursuant to Article 47.
The exercise of the powers conferred on the supervisory authority pursuant to this Article shall be subject to appropriate safeguards, including effective judicial remedy and due process, set out in Union and Member State law in accordance with the Charter.
Each Member State shall provide by law that its supervisory authority shall have the power to bring infringements of this Regulation to the attention of the judicial authorities and where appropriate, to commence or engage otherwise in legal proceedings, in order to enforce the provisions of this Regulation.
Each Member State may provide by law that its supervisory authority shall have additional powers to those referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. The exercise of those powers shall not impair the effective operation of Chapter VII.
1．每个监管机构都具有所有如下调查权力：
(a)要求控制者和处理者，以及——在适合的情形下——控制者或处理者的代表提供履行其任务所需要的所有信息；
(b)以数据保护核查的方式进行调查；
(c)对根据第42（7）所颁布的认证进行审查；
(d)将可能侵犯本条例的情况告知控制者或处理者；
(e)从控制者或处理者那里获取访问个人数据的权力，以及为了行使其任务而所需的所有信息；
(f)按照欧盟与成员国法律的程序法，获取对控制者和处理者的所有房屋建筑及场地，包括数据处理设施和方法的访问权。
2．每个监管机构都有所有如下矫正性权力：
(a)对控制者或处理者颁发警告，警告预期的处理操作可能会侵犯本条例的条款；
(b)当处理操作侵犯本条例条款的时候，对控制者或处理者进行申诫；
(c)命令控制者或处理者尊重数据主体行使符合本条例的权利；
(d)命令控制者或处理者的处理操作符合本条例条款，如果适合的话，应当在特定的期限内以特定的方式完成；
(e)命令控制者将个人数据泄露的情况告知数据主体；
(f)对处理施加暂时性或具有明确期限的禁令；
(g)要求对个人数据进行纠正或擦除，或根据第16条，17条和18条而对处理进行限制，以及将此类行动告知第17（2）条和第19条规定的个人数据披露给的接收者；
(h)撤回认证，或命令认证机构撤回根据第42条和第43条而颁发的认证，或者当认证的要求不满足或不再满足时，命令认证机构不要颁发认证；
(i)视每个案例的情形不同，在本段所规定的措施之外，或者替代本段所规定的措施而采取第83条规定的行政处罚；
(j)要求中止将数据传输到第三国或国际组织。
3．每个监管机构都有所有如下授权和建议的权力：
(a)根据第36条规定的提前咨询条款向控制者提出建议；
(b)主动或根据要求为全国性议会、成员国政府提供意见，或者根据成员国法为其他机构、实体与公众提供和个人数据保护相关的保护；
(c)如果成员国的法律要求此类提前咨询，根据第36（5）条而授权处理；
(d)根据第40（5）条而发布意见以及行为准则；
(e)根据第43条而委任认证机构；
(f)根据第42（5）条颁发认证和批准认证的标准；
(g)制定第28（8）条以及第46（2）条（d）点规定的数据保护标准条款；
(h)授权第46（3）条（a）点规定的合同条款；
(i)授权第46（3）条（b）点规定的行政性安排；
(j)批准符合第47条的约束性公司规则。
4．根据本条而行使赋予给监管机构的权力应当满足合适的安全保障，包括根据欧盟宪章而在欧盟和成员国法律中规定的有效司法救济和正当程序。
5．每个成员国应当通过法律规定，其监管机构为了执行本条例的条款，有权将违反本条例的情形诉诸司法机构，在合适的情形下可以提起或参与法律诉讼。
6．每个成员国都应当通过法律规定，其监管机构具有第1、2和3段规定的附加权力。对那些权利的行使不应当削弱第七章规定的有效运行。
Article 59 Activity reports / 第59条 活动报告
Each supervisory authority shall draw up an annual report on its activities, which may include a list of types of infringement notified and types of measures taken in accordance with Article 58(2). Those reports shall be transmitted to the national parliament, the government and other authorities as designated by Member State law. They shall be made available to the public, to the Commission and to the Board.
每个监管机构都应当起草一份关于其活动的年度报告，这可以包括其被告知的违法类型以及根据第58（2）条而采取的措施类型。此类报告应当传输给全国性议会、政府以及成员国法律所委任的其他机构。公众、欧盟委员会和欧盟数据保护委员会应当能够获取这些报告。
CHAPTER VII Cooperation and consistency / 第七章 合作与一致性
Section 1 Cooperation / 第一部分 合作
Article 60 Cooperation between the lead supervisory authority and the other supervisory authorities concerned / 第60条 领导性监管机构和其他相关监管机构的合作
The lead supervisory authority shall cooperate with the other supervisory authorities concerned in accordance with this Article in an endeavour to reach consensus. The lead supervisory authority and the supervisory authorities concerned shall exchange all relevant information with each other.
The lead supervisory authority may request at any time other supervisory authorities concerned to provide mutual assistance pursuant to Article 61 and may conduct joint operations pursuant to Article 62, in particular for carrying out investigations or for monitoring the implementation of a measure concerning a controller or processor established in another Member State.
The lead supervisory authority shall, without delay, communicate the relevant information on the matter to the other supervisory authorities concerned. It shall without delay submit a draft decision to the other supervisory authorities concerned for their opinion and take due account of their views.
Where any of the other supervisory authorities concerned within a period of four weeks after having been consulted in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, expresses a relevant and reasoned objection to the draft decision, the lead supervisory authority shall, if it does not follow the relevant and reasoned objection or is of the opinion that the objection is not relevant or reasoned, submit the matter to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63.
Where the lead supervisory authority intends to follow the relevant and reasoned objection made, it shall submit to the other supervisory authorities concerned a revised draft decision for their opinion. That revised draft decision shall be subject to the procedure referred to in paragraph 4 within a period of two weeks.
Where none of the other supervisory authorities concerned has objected to the draft decision submitted by the lead supervisory authority within the period referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5, the lead supervisory authority and the supervisory authorities concerned shall be deemed to be in agreement with that draft decision and shall be bound by it.
The lead supervisory authority shall adopt and notify the decision to the main establishment or single establishment of the controller or processor, as the case may be and inform the other supervisory authorities concerned and the Board of the decision in question, including a summary of the relevant facts and grounds. The supervisory authority with which a complaint has been lodged shall inform the complainant on the decision.
By derogation from paragraph 7, where a complaint is dismissed or rejected, the supervisory authority with which the complaint was lodged shall adopt the decision and notify it to the complainant and shall inform the controller thereof.
Where the lead supervisory authority and the supervisory authorities concerned agree to dismiss or reject parts of a complaint and to act on other parts of that complaint, a separate decision shall be adopted for each of those parts of the matter. The lead supervisory authority shall adopt the decision for the part concerning actions in relation to the controller, shall notify it to the main establishment or single establishment of the controller or processor on the territory of its Member State and shall inform the complainant thereof, while the supervisory authority of the complainant shall adopt the decision for the part concerning dismissal or rejection of that complaint, and shall notify it to that complainant and shall inform the controller or processor thereof.
After being notified of the decision of the lead supervisory authority pursuant to paragraphs 7 and 9, the controller or processor shall take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the decision as regards processing activities in the context of all its establishments in the Union. The controller or processor shall notify the measures taken for complying with the decision to the lead supervisory authority, which shall inform the other supervisory authorities concerned.
Where, in exceptional circumstances, a supervisory authority concerned has reasons to consider that there is an urgent need to act in order to protect the interests of data subjects, the urgency procedure referred to in Article 66 shall apply.
The lead supervisory authority and the other supervisory authorities concerned shall supply the information required under this Article to each other by electronic means, using a standardised format.
1．领导性监管机构应当根据本条和其他相关监管机构进行合作，努力达成共识。领导性监管机构和相关监管机构应当彼此分享相关信息。
2．领导性监管机构可以随时要求其他相关监管机构提供第61条规定的互助合作，而且可以根据第62条而进行联合行动，这尤其适用于如下情形：为了进行调查，或者为了实施涉及到设立在另一成员国的控制者或处理者的措施。
3．领导性监管机构应当及时将事项相关信息告知给其他相关监管机构。对于其他相关监管机构的意见，其应当充分考虑，并及时向其他相关监管机构提交一份决定草案。
4．当其他任何相关监管机构收到第3段中所规定的咨询，并在四周内表达了对决定草案的相关与合理的反对，领导性监管机构如果不同意此相关与合理的反对，或者认为其意见是不相关或不合理的，应当将此事项提交给第63条规定的一致性机制。
5．如果领导性的监管机构同意相关与合理的反对意见，对于此反对意见，其应当将一份修订后的草案决定提交给其他监管机构。修订后的草案决定应当遵守第4段所规定的程序，并且应当在两个星期内做出。
6．如果在第4段和第5段所规定的期间内，其他相关监管机构都没有反对领导性监管机构所提交的决定草案，应当推定领导性的监管机构和相关监管机构对于决定草案具有一致意见，而且应当受其约束。
7．领导性监管机构应当做出决定，将决定的情况——包括相关事实和理由的总结——通知给控制者或处理者的主要营业机构或唯一营业机构，并视情况通过其他相关监管机构以及做出该决定的欧盟数据保护委员会。收到申诉的监管机构应当将决定的情况告知给申诉者。
8．在申诉被撤销或驳回的情形中，第7段的规定可以进行克减，收到申诉的监管机构应当采用决定并将其告知申诉者，由此也告知了控制者。
9．当领导性监管机构和相关监管机构同意撤销或驳回申诉的一部分，对申诉的其他部分采取行动，对于此类其他部分的事项，应当采取单独的决定。领导性监管机构应当采用和控制者行动相关的那部分决定，将其通告给控制者或处理者在成员国境内的主要营业机构或唯一营业机构，由此也告知了申诉者。另一方面，申诉者的监管机构应当采用和撤销或驳回申诉相关的那部分决定，将其告知申诉者，由此也告知了控制者或处理者。
10．当收到领导性监管机构根据第7段和第9段而进行的告知后，控制者或处理者应当采取必要措施，保证其在欧盟所有的所有机构的处理活动都符合决定。控制者或处理者应当向领导性监管机构告知为遵守决定而采取的措施，并通知其他相关监管机构。
11．在极端情形下，当某相关监管机构认为，有充分理由证明需要采取紧急行动以保护数据主体的利益，应当援引第66条有关紧急程序的规定。
12．领导性监管机构和其他相关监管机构应当通过电子方式，以标准化的格式为彼此提供本条所要求提供的信息。
Article 61 Mutual assistance / 第61条 互相协助
Supervisory authorities shall provide each other with relevant information and mutual assistance in order to implement and apply this Regulation in a consistent manner, and shall put in place measures for effective cooperation with one another. Mutual assistance shall cover, in particular, information requests and supervisory measures, such as requests to carry out prior authorisations and consultations, inspections and investigations.
Each supervisory authority shall take all appropriate measures required to reply to a request of another supervisory authority without undue delay and no later than one month after receiving the request. Such measures may include, in particular, the transmission of relevant information on the conduct of an investigation.
Requests for assistance shall contain all the necessary information, including the purpose of and reasons for the request. Information exchanged shall be used only for the purpose for which it was requested.
The requested supervisory authority shall not refuse to comply with the request unless:
it is not competent for the subject-matter of the request or for the measures it is requested to execute; or
compliance with the request would infringe this Regulation or Union or Member State law to which the supervisory authority receiving the request is subject.
The requested supervisory authority shall inform the requesting supervisory authority of the results or, as the case may be, of the progress of the measures taken in order to respond to the request. The requested supervisory authority shall provide reasons for any refusal to comply with a request pursuant to paragraph 4.
Requested supervisory authorities shall, as a rule, supply the information requested by other supervisory authorities by electronic means, using a standardised format.
Requested supervisory authorities shall not charge a fee for any action taken by them pursuant to a request for mutual assistance. Supervisory authorities may agree on rules to indemnify each other for specific expenditure arising from the provision of mutual assistance in exceptional circumstances.
Where a supervisory authority does not provide the information referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article within one month of receiving the request of another supervisory authority, the requesting supervisory authority may adopt a provisional measure on the territory of its Member State in accordance with Article 55(1). In that case, the urgent need to act under Article 66(1) shall be presumed to be met and require an urgent binding decision from the Board pursuant to Article 66(2).
The Commission may, by means of implementing acts, specify the format and procedures for mutual assistance referred to in this Article and the arrangements for the exchange of information by electronic means between supervisory authorities, and between supervisory authorities and the Board, in particular the standardised format referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2).
1．监管机构应当为彼此提供信息和互相协助，以便以一种一致性的方式执行和适用本条例，而且应当拥有有效信息以进行有效的相互合作。互相协助尤其应当包括信息请求和监管措施，例如在授权与咨询、检验与调查之前请求信息和采取监管措施。
2．对于另一监管机构的请求，每个监管机构都应当采取恰当的合适措施及时回应，而且至迟应当在收到请求内的一个月内进行。此类措施尤其可以包括传输和调查相关的信息。
3．请求协助应当包括所有必要信息，包括请求的目的与原因。被交换的信息只能被用于实现请求协助的目的。
4．除非存在如下情形，被请求的监管机构不应当拒绝请求：
(a)被请求的监管机构对被请求的主体事项或被请求执行的措施没有职权；或者
(b)被请求的监管机构对请求进行照办，这会侵犯本条例或欧盟或成员国的为被请求的监管机构所制定的法律。
5．被请求的监管机构应将结果告知发出请求的监管机构，而且应当视情况告知为了实现请求而采取的措施。被请求的监管机构如果拒绝按第4段而提出的请求，应当提供说明。
6．基于其他监管机构的请求，被请求的监管机构应当以电子形式，使用标准化的格式提供信息，这应当成为一项规则。
7．所有被请求的监管机构根据请求而进行的互相协作，都不应当收取费用。对于特定情形下因为提供互相协作而产生的特定花费，监管机构之间可以签订补偿规则。
8．当某监管机构在收到另一监管的请求后一个月内仍然不提供第5段所规定的信息，做出请求的监管机构可以根据第55（1）条在其成员国境内采取临时性措施。在这种情形中，可以推定为符合第66（1）条的紧急情况，欧盟数据保护委员会应根据第66（1）条而作出紧急约束性决定。
9．欧盟数据保护委员会可以通过制定实施性法案而细化本条规定的互相协助的形式与程序，在监管机构之间、监管机构和欧盟委员会之间以电子方式进行的信息交换，特别是本条第6段所规定的标准化格式。此类实施性法案的制定应当遵循第93（2）条规定的验证程序。
Article 62 Joint operations of supervisory authorities / 第62条 监管机构的联合行动
The supervisory authorities shall, where appropriate, conduct joint operations including joint investigations and joint enforcement measures in which members or staff of the supervisory authorities of other Member States are involved.
Where the controller or processor has establishments in several Member States or where a significant number of data subjects in more than one Member State are likely to be substantially affected by processing operations, a supervisory authority of each of those Member States shall have the right to participate in joint operations. The supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 56(1) or (4) shall invite the supervisory authority of each of those Member States to take part in the joint operations and shall respond without delay to the request of a supervisory authority to participate.
A supervisory authority may, in accordance with Member State law, and with the seconding supervisory authority’s authorisation, confer powers, including investigative powers on the seconding supervisory authority’s members or staff involved in joint operations or, in so far as the law of the Member State of the host supervisory authority permits, allow the seconding supervisory authority’s members or staff to exercise their investigative powers in accordance with the law of the Member State of the seconding supervisory authority. Such investigative powers may be exercised only under the guidance and in the presence of members or staff of the host supervisory authority. The seconding supervisory authority’s members or staff shall be subject to the Member State law of the host supervisory authority.
Where, in accordance with paragraph 1, staff of a seconding supervisory authority operate in another Member State, the Member State of the host supervisory authority shall assume responsibility for their actions, including liability, for any damage caused by them during their operations, in accordance with the law of the Member State in whose territory they are operating.
The Member State in whose territory the damage was caused shall make good such damage under the conditions applicable to damage caused by its own staff. The Member State of the seconding supervisory authority whose staff has caused damage to any person in the territory of another Member State shall reimburse that other Member State in full any sums it has paid to the persons entitled on their behalf.
Without prejudice to the exercise of its rights vis-à-vis third parties and with the exception of paragraph 5, each Member State shall refrain, in the case provided for in paragraph 1, from requesting reimbursement from another Member State in relation to damage referred to in paragraph 4.
Where a joint operation is intended and a supervisory authority does not, within one month, comply with the obligation laid down in the second sentence of paragraph 2 of this Article, the other supervisory authorities may adopt a provisional measure on the territory of its Member State in accordance with Article 55. In that case, the urgent need to act under Article 66(1) shall be presumed to be met and require an opinion or an urgent binding decision from the Board pursuant to Article 66(2).
1．在合适的时候，监管机构应当进行联合行动，包括在涉及到其他成员国监管机构的成员或员工的情形下进行联合调查和采取联合执行措施。
2．当控制者或处理者在多个成员国设立机构，或者当两国或两国以上的数据主体可能会受处理操作的实质性影响，这些成员国的监管机构都有权参与联合行动。按照第56（1）或56（4）条规定而拥有职权的监管机构可以邀请这些成员国中的每个国家的监管机构参与联合行动，而且应当及时回应某监管机构的参与请求。
3．一个监管机构可以按照成员国的法律，以及临时调派的监管机构的授权，将调查权等权力授权给临时调查的监管机构的成员或员工。或者，如果监管机构的成员国的法律允许，应当允许临时调派的监管机构的成员或员工行使其符合成员国法律对其做出规定的调查权。只有在东道主监管机构的成员或员工的指导和见证之下，此类权力才能被行使。临时调派的监管机构的成员或员工应当遵守东道主监管机构所在的成员国国家的法律。
4．当根据第一段的规定临时调派的监管机构在另一成员国内活动，东道主监管机构所在的成员国应当对其行动承担责任，包括对活动期间所引起的损害，应当按照其活动地所属的成员国法律承担责任。
5．对于成员国境内所造成的损害，如果其可以适用其成员国的损害赔偿，成员国应当进行赔偿。临时调派的监管机构的某成员国的员工对另一成员国境内的人造成伤害，在另一成员国对个人进行补偿后，某成员国应当对另一成员国进行补偿。
6．除了第5段所规定的情形，在不影响行使相对于第三人权利的前提下，若出现第1段规定的情形，各成员国不得就第4段的损害向相关成员国提出损害赔偿的要求。
7．当存在联合行动的计划，而且当监管机构拒绝遵守本条第2段第二句所设定的责任，其他监管机构可以根据第55条在其境内采取临时性措施。在这种情形中，可以推定为符合第66（1）条的紧急情况，欧盟数据保护委员会应根据第66（2）条而作出紧急约束性决定。
Section 2 Consistency / 第二部分 一致性
Article 63 Consistency mechanism / 第63条 一致性机制
In order to contribute to the consistent application of this Regulation throughout the Union, the supervisory authorities shall cooperate with each other and, where relevant, with the Commission, through the consistency mechanism as set out in this Section.
为了帮助本条例在欧盟的一致性适用，监管机构应当相互合作，以及在相关的情形下通过本部分规定的一致性机制而和欧盟委员会进行合作。
Article 64 Opinion of the Board / 第64条 欧盟数据保护委员会的意见
The Board shall issue an opinion where a competent supervisory authority intends to adopt any of the measures below. To that end, the competent supervisory authority shall communicate the draft decision to the Board, when it:
aims to adopt a list of the processing operations subject to the requirement for a data protection impact assessment pursuant to Article 35(4);
concerns a matter pursuant to Article 40(7) whether a draft code of conduct or an amendment or extension to a code of conduct complies with this Regulation;
aims to approve the criteria for accreditation of a body pursuant to Article 41(3) or a certification body pursuant to Article 43(3);
aims to determine standard data protection clauses referred to in point (d) of Article 46(2) and in Article 28(8);
aims to authorise contractual clauses referred to in point (a) of Article 46(3); or
aims to approve binding corporate rules within the meaning of Article 47.
Any supervisory authority, the Chair of the Board or the Commission may request that any matter of general application or producing effects in more than one Member State be examined by the Board with a view to obtaining an opinion, in particular where a competent supervisory authority does not comply with the obligations for mutual assistance in accordance with Article 61 or for joint operations in accordance with Article 62.
In the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Board shall issue an opinion on the matter submitted to it provided that it has not already issued an opinion on the same matter. That opinion shall be adopted within eight weeks by simple majority of the members of the Board. That period may be extended by a further six weeks, taking into account the complexity of the subject matter. Regarding the draft decision referred to in paragraph 1 circulated to the members of the Board in accordance with paragraph 5, a member which has not objected within a reasonable period indicated by the Chair, shall be deemed to be in agreement with the draft decision.
Supervisory authorities and the Commission shall, without undue delay, communicate by electronic means to the Board, using a standardised format any relevant information, including as the case may be a summary of the facts, the draft decision, the grounds which make the enactment of such measure necessary, and the views of other supervisory authorities concerned.
The Chair of the Board shall, without undue, delay inform by electronic means:
the members of the Board and the Commission of any relevant information which has been communicated to it using a standardised format. The secretariat of the Board shall, where necessary, provide translations of relevant information; and
the supervisory authority referred to, as the case may be, in paragraphs 1 and 2, and the Commission of the opinion and make it public.
The competent supervisory authority shall not adopt its draft decision referred to in paragraph 1 within the period referred to in paragraph 3.
The supervisory authority referred to in paragraph 1 shall take utmost account of the opinion of the Board and shall, within two weeks after receiving the opinion, communicate to the Chair of the Board by electronic means whether it will maintain or amend its draft decision and, if any, the amended draft decision, using a standardised format.
Where the supervisory authority concerned informs the Chair of the Board within the period referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article that it does not intend to follow the opinion of the Board, in whole or in part, providing the relevant grounds, Article 65(1) shall apply.
1．当某个有权监管机构计划采取如下任何一项措施，欧盟数据保护委员会应当发布意见。为此，有权监管机构应当将决定草案告知欧盟数据保护委员会，如果：
(a)决定草案的目标是采取一系列符合第35（4）条所规定的数据保护影响评估要求的处理操作；
(b)决定草案涉及到第40（7）条规定的行为准则草案，或行为准则草案的修订案或延期是否符合本条例；
(c)决定草案的目标是批准符合第41（3）条规定的委派实体，以及符合第43（3）条规定的认证实体的标准；
(d)决定草案的目标是确定第46（2）条（d）点和第28（8）条规定的标准数据保护条款；
(e)决定草案的目标是批准第46（3）条（a）点规定的合同条款；或者
(f)决定草案的目标是批准第47条所指的有效性公司规则。
2．任何监管机构、欧盟数据保护委员会或欧盟委员会的主席都可以提出要求，为了给出意见——特别是当有权监管机构不遵守第61条规定的相互协助的责任或第62条规定的联合行动时——可以对任何关乎一般性使用的事项，或在不止一个成员国产生影响的事项进行核查。
3．对于第1段和第2段提到的情形，欧盟数据保护委员会如果此前没有对类似事项发表过意见，应当对提交给它的事项发布一份意见。这份意见应当在八周内根据欧盟数据保护委员会成员的简单多数来决定。考虑到主要事项的复杂性，八周的期限可以再延长六周。关于第1段规定的按照第5段而在欧盟数据保护委员会中流通的决议草案，如果某成员在欧盟数据保护委员会主席所表明的合理期限内不提出异议，就应当视为同意决议草案。
4．监管机构和欧盟数据保护委员会应当及时以电子化手段，使用标准化的格式将任何相关信息进行沟通。此类信息可以是事实的总结、决议草案、采取此类必要措施的理由，以及其他相关机构的观点。
5．欧盟数据保护委员会的主席应当及时通过电子手段：
(a)通过标准化格式将任何已经获知的相关信息告知欧盟数据保护委员会和欧盟委员会的成员。如有需要，欧盟数据保护委员会的秘书应当提供相关信息的翻译；并且
(b)将意见告知第1段和第2段规定的监管机构和欧盟委员会，并公开意见。
6．在第3段规定的期间内，有权监管机构不应当采用第1段所规定的决议草案。
7．第1段中所规定的监管机构应当最大限度地考虑欧盟数据保护委员会的意见，而且应在收到意见的两周内以电子方式告知欧盟数据保护委员会的主席，其是否会维持或修改其决议草案，以及修改后的决议草案——如果有的话。
8．当相关监管机构在本条第7段规定的期限内通知委员会主席，其并无意遵守委员会的所有意见或意见的一部分，并且提供了相关理由，此种情形下第65（1）条应当适用。
Article 65 Dispute resolution by the Board / 第65条 欧盟数据保护委员会的纠纷解决
In order to ensure the correct and consistent application of this Regulation in individual cases, the Board shall adopt a binding decision in the following cases:
where, in a case referred to in Article 60(4), a supervisory authority concerned has raised a relevant and reasoned objection to a draft decision of the lead authority or the lead authority has rejected such an objection as being not relevant or reasoned. The binding decision shall concern all the matters which are the subject of the relevant and reasoned objection, in particular whether there is an infringement of this Regulation;
where there are conflicting views on which of the supervisory authorities concerned is competent for the main establishment;
where a competent supervisory authority does not request the opinion of the Board in the cases referred to in Article 64(1), or does not follow the opinion of the Board issued under Article 64. In that case, any supervisory authority concerned or the Commission may communicate the matter to the Board.
The decision referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted within one month from the referral of the subject-matter by a two-thirds majority of the members of the Board. That period may be extended by a further month on account of the complexity of the subject-matter. The decision referred to in paragraph 1 shall be reasoned and addressed to the lead supervisory authority and all the supervisory authorities concerned and binding on them.
Where the Board has been unable to adopt a decision within the periods referred to in paragraph 2, it shall adopt its decision within two weeks following the expiration of the second month referred to in paragraph 2 by a simple majority of the members of the Board. Where the members of the Board are split, the decision shall by adopted by the vote of its Chair.
The supervisory authorities concerned shall not adopt a decision on the subject matter submitted to the Board under paragraph 1 during the periods referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3.
The Chair of the Board shall notify, without undue delay, the decision referred to in paragraph 1 to the supervisory authorities concerned. It shall inform the Commission thereof. The decision shall be published on the website of the Board without delay after the supervisory authority has notified the final decision referred to in paragraph 6.
The lead supervisory authority or, as the case may be, the supervisory authority with which the complaint has been lodged shall adopt its final decision on the basis of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, without undue delay and at the latest by one month after the Board has notified its decision. The lead supervisory authority or, as the case may be, the supervisory authority with which the complaint has been lodged, shall inform the Board of the date when its final decision is notified respectively to the controller or the processor and to the data subject. The final decision of the supervisory authorities concerned shall be adopted under the terms of Article 60(7), (8) and (9). The final decision shall refer to the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall specify that the decision referred to in that paragraph will be published on the website of the Board in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Article. The final decision shall attach the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.
1．为了确保在个案中对本条例的正确与融贯适用，欧盟数据保护委员会应当在如下情形中做出有约束力的决定：
(a)在第60（4）条规定的情形中，相关监管机构对领导性机构的草案决定提出了相关与合理的反对，或者领导性机构驳回了反对，认为其不相关或不合理。约束性决定应当涉及相关与合理反对所涉及的所有事项，特别是当其存在违反本条例的情形；
(b)对于哪个监管机构有权管辖主要营业机构存在不同意见；
(c)在第64（1）条规定的情形中，有权监管机构并不请求获得欧盟数据保护委员会的意见，或者并不遵守欧盟数据保护委员会按照第64条发布的意见。在这种情形下，任何相关监管机构或欧盟数据保护委员会都可以将此事项告知欧盟数据保护委员会。
2．三分之二多数的欧盟数据保护委员会成员在将主体事项转交后，应当在1个月以内做出第1段所规定的决定。考虑到主体事项的复杂性，这个期间可以再延长一个月。第1段所规定的决定应当是合理的，应当告知领导性监管机构和所有相关监管机构，并且对它们具有约束力。
3．当欧盟数据保护委员会无法在第2段所规定的期限内做出决定，其应当以欧盟数据保护委员会成员简单多数的方式在第2段所规定的第二个月的期限结束后的两星期内做出决定。如果欧盟数据保护委员会成员的投票刚好完全分裂，那么决定将根据主席的投票而做出。
4．在第2段和第3段所规定的期限内，相关监管机构不应当对根据第1段而提交给欧盟数据保护委员会的主体事项做出决定。
5．欧盟数据保护委员会的主席应当及时将第1段所规定的决定告知相关监管机构。这也就告知了欧盟委员会。在监管机构告知第6段规定的最终决定后，决定应当在欧盟数据保护委员会的网站上及时发表。
6．领导性监管机构或者收到申诉的监管机构应当根据本条第1段所规定的决定性基础及时做出最终决定，至迟应当在欧盟数据保护委员会告知其决定后的一个月以内做出。领导性的监管机构或收到申诉的监管机构应当向欧盟数据保护委员会报告其将该决定告知控制者或处理者以及数据主体的时间。相关监管机构的最终决定应当根据第60（7）（8）（9）条的条款而做出。最终决定应当涉及本条第1段所规定的决定，而且应当具体说明，本条第1段所规定的决定将会根据本条第5段而在欧盟数据保护委员会的网站上发表。最终决定应当附上本条第1段所规定的决定。
Article 66 Urgency procedure / 第66条 紧急程序
In exceptional circumstances, where a supervisory authority concerned considers that there is an urgent need to act in order to protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects, it may, by way of derogation from the consistency mechanism referred to in Articles 63, 64 and 65 or the procedure referred to in Article 60, immediately adopt provisional measures intended to produce legal effects on its own territory with a specified period of validity which shall not exceed three months. The supervisory authority shall, without delay, communicate those measures and the reasons for adopting them to the other supervisory authorities concerned, to the Board and to the Commission.
Where a supervisory authority has taken a measure pursuant to paragraph 1 and considers that final measures need urgently be adopted, it may request an urgent opinion or an urgent binding decision from the Board, giving reasons for requesting such opinion or decision.
Any supervisory authority may request an urgent opinion or an urgent binding decision, as the case may be, from the Board where a competent supervisory authority has not taken an appropriate measure in a situation where there is an urgent need to act, in order to protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects, giving reasons for requesting such opinion or decision, including for the urgent need to act.
By derogation from Article 64(3) and Article 65(2), an urgent opinion or an urgent binding decision referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall be adopted within two weeks by simple majority of the members of the Board.
1．在例外情形中，当相关监管机构认为有必要对保护数据主体的权利与自由采取紧急行动，其可以通过第63、64和65条规定的一致性机制或第60条规定的程序来进行克减，立即采取在其境内一段时间内——不超过3个月——具有法律效力的临时性措施。监管机构应当及时将采取这些措施的手段与原因告知其他相关监管机构、欧盟数据保护委员会与欧盟委员会。
2．当监管机构采取符合第1段的措施，以及考虑亟需采用的最终措施，其可以请求欧盟数据保护委员会出具一份紧急意见或紧急约束性决定，并说明提出此请求的原因。
3．如果有必要对保护数据主体的权利与自由采取紧急行动，而有权监管机构却没有采取合适措施，任何监管机构都可以向欧盟数据保护委员会请求一份紧急意见或紧急约束性决定，说明提出此请求的原因，包括需要采取紧急行动的原因。
4．对于第64（3）条和第65（2）条规定的的克减，欧盟数据保护委员会成员的简单多数应当在两个星期内做出本条第2段和第3段规定的紧急意见或紧急约束性决定。
Article 67 Exchange of information / 第67条 信息交换
The Commission may adopt implementing acts of general scope in order to specify the arrangements for the exchange of information by electronic means between supervisory authorities, and between supervisory authorities and the Board, in particular the standardised format referred to in Article 64.
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2).
对于监管机构之间、监管机构与欧盟数据保护委员会之间以电子方式进行的信息交换，特别是对于第64条规定的标准化格式，欧盟委员会可以进一步制定细化的实施性法案。
这些实施性法案应当根据第93（2）条规定的验证程序制定。
Section 3 European data protection board / 第三部分 欧盟数据保护委员会
Article 68 European Data Protection Board / 第68条 欧盟数据保护委员会
The European Data Protection Board (the ‘Board’) is hereby established as a body of the Union and shall have legal personality.
The Board shall be represented by its Chair.
The Board shall be composed of the head of one supervisory authority of each Member State and of the European Data Protection Supervisor, or their respective representatives.
Where in a Member State more than one supervisory authority is responsible for monitoring the application of the provisions pursuant to this Regulation, a joint representative shall be appointed in accordance with that Member State’s law.
The Commission shall have the right to participate in the activities and meetings of the Board without voting right. The Commission shall designate a representative. The Chair of the Board shall communicate to the Commission the activities of the Board.
In the cases referred to in Article 65, the European Data Protection Supervisor shall have voting rights only on decisions which concern principles and rules applicable to the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies which correspond in substance to those of this Regulation.
1．欧盟数据保护委员会特此被设立为欧盟的一个机构，而且将具有法人身份。
2．欧盟数据保护委员会的代表是其主席。
3．欧盟数据保护委员会应当包括每个成员国的每个监管机构的首长、欧盟数据保护监管者的首长，或者他们的代表。
4．当一个成员国内不止一个监管机构负责监控对本条例条款的适用，应当按照成员国的法律任命一个联合代表。
5．欧盟委员会应当有权参与欧盟数据保护委员会的活动与会议，但没有投票权。欧盟委员会应当委任一名代表。欧盟数据保护委员会的主席应当将其活动告知欧盟委员会。
6．对于第65条规定的情形，只有当决议涉及到适用于和本条例规定有实质性对应的欧盟机构、实体、办公室、规制机构的原则和规则时，欧盟数据保护监管者才具有投票权。
Article 69 Independence / 第69条 独立性
The Board shall act independently when performing its tasks or exercising its powers pursuant to Articles 70 and 71.
Without prejudice to requests by the Commission referred to in point (b) of Article 70(1) and in Article 70(2), the Board shall, in the performance of its tasks or the exercise of its powers, neither seek nor take instructions from anybody.
1．当根据第70条和第71条履行其任务或行使其权力时，欧盟数据保护委员会应当保持其独立性。
2．在不影响第70（1）条（b）点和第70（2）条所规定的欧盟委员会的请求的前提下，欧盟数据保护委员会在履行其任务或行使其权力时，应当避免从任何人那里获取指示。
Article 70 Tasks of the Board / 第70条 欧盟数据保护委员会的任务
The Board shall ensure the consistent application of this Regulation. To that end, the Board shall, on its own initiative or, where relevant, at the request of the Commission, in particular:
monitor and ensure the correct application of this Regulation in the cases provided for in Articles 64 and 65 without prejudice to the tasks of national supervisory authorities;
advise the Commission on any issue related to the protection of personal data in the Union, including on any proposed amendment of this Regulation;
advise the Commission on the format and procedures for the exchange of information between controllers, processors and supervisory authorities for binding corporate rules;
issue guidelines, recommendations, and best practices on procedures for erasing links, copies or replications of personal data from publicly available communication services as referred to in Article 17(2);
examine, on its own initiative, on request of one of its members or on request of the Commission, any question covering the application of this Regulation and issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in order to encourage consistent application of this Regulation;
issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in accordance with point (e) of this paragraph for further specifying the criteria and conditions for decisions based on profiling pursuant to Article 22(2);
issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in accordance with point (e) of this paragraph for establishing the personal data breaches and determining the undue delay referred to in Article 33(1) and (2) and for the particular circumstances in which a controller or a processor is required to notify the personal data breach;
issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in accordance with point (e) of this paragraph as to the circumstances in which a personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of the natural persons referred to in Article 34(1).
issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in accordance with point (e) of this paragraph for the purpose of further specifying the criteria and requirements for personal data transfers based on binding corporate rules adhered to by controllers and binding corporate rules adhered to by processors and on further necessary requirements to ensure the protection of personal data of the data subjects concerned referred to in Article 47;
issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in accordance with point (e) of this paragraph for the purpose of further specifying the criteria and requirements for the personal data transfers on the basis of Article 49(1);
draw up guidelines for supervisory authorities concerning the application of measures referred to in Article 58(1), (2) and (3) and the setting of administrative fines pursuant to Article 83;
review the practical application of the guidelines, recommendations and best practices referred to in points (e) and (f);
issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in accordance with point (e) of this paragraph for establishing common procedures for reporting by natural persons of infringements of this Regulation pursuant to Article 54(2);
encourage the drawing-up of codes of conduct and the establishment of data protection certification mechanisms and data protection seals and marks pursuant to Articles 40 and 42;
carry out the accreditation of certification bodies and its periodic review pursuant to Article 43 and maintain a public register of accredited bodies pursuant to Article 43(6) and of the accredited controllers or processors established in third countries pursuant to Article 42(7);
specify the requirements referred to in Article 43(3) with a view to the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 42;
provide the Commission with an opinion on the certification requirements referred to in Article 43(8);
provide the Commission with an opinion on the icons referred to in Article 12(7);
provide the Commission with an opinion for the assessment of the adequacy of the level of protection in a third country or international organisation, including for the assessment whether a third country, a territory or one or more specified sectors within that third country, or an international organisation no longer ensures an adequate level of protection. To that end, the Commission shall provide the Board with all necessary documentation, including correspondence with the government of the third country, with regard to that third country, territory or specified sector, or with the international organisation.
issue opinions on draft decisions of supervisory authorities pursuant to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 64(1), on matters submitted pursuant to Article 64(2) and to issue binding decisions pursuant to Article 65, including in cases referred to in Article 66;
promote the cooperation and the effective bilateral and multilateral exchange of information and best practices between the supervisory authorities;
promote common training programmes and facilitate personnel exchanges between the supervisory authorities and, where appropriate, with the supervisory authorities of third countries or with international organisations;
promote the exchange of knowledge and documentation on data protection legislation and practice with data protection supervisory authorities worldwide.
issue opinions on codes of conduct drawn up at Union level pursuant to Article 40(9); and
maintain a publicly accessible electronic register of decisions taken by supervisory authorities and courts on issues handled in the consistency mechanism.
Where the Commission requests advice from the Board, it may indicate a time limit, taking into account the urgency of the matter.
The Board shall forward its opinions, guidelines, recommendations, and best practices to the Commission and to the committee referred to in Article 93 and make them public.
The Board shall, where appropriate, consult interested parties and give them the opportunity to comment within a reasonable period. The Board shall, without prejudice to Article 76, make the results of the consultation procedure publicly available.
1．欧盟数据保护委员会应当确保对本条例的一致性适用。为了实现这一目的，在相关情形中，欧盟数据保护委员应当主动或根据欧盟委员会的请求而采取如下行动：
(a)在不影响全国性监管机构的任务的前提下，确保在第64条和65条所规定的情形中正确适用本条例；
(b)对欧盟数据保护相关的所有事项，包括对本条例的修改动议，向欧盟委员会提供建议；
(c)对为制定约束性公司规则而在控制者、处理者和监管机构之间进行的信息交换的格式与程序向欧盟委员会提供建议；
(d)从第17（2）条规定的公众可以获取的通讯服务中擦除个人信息的链接、备份或复制品，对这种活动的程序发布指导方针、建议和最佳操作；
(e)主动或根据其成员的请求，或根据欧盟委员会的请求核查涉及本条例适用的任何问题，为了鼓励对本条例的适用，发布指导方针、建议和最佳操作；
(f)为了进一步细化第22（2）条规定的基于用户画像的决策的标准和条件，发布符合本段（e）点的指导方针、建议和最佳操作；
(g)为了认定个人数据泄露，确定是否存在第33（1）、（2）条所规定的无理拖延，以及控制者或处理者是否需要告知个人数据泄露，发布符合本段（e）点的指导方针、建议和最佳操作；
(h)对于个人数据违法可能会对第34（1）条规定的自然人的权利与自由带来高风险的情形，发布符合本段（e）点的纲领、建议和最佳操作；
(i)对于符合控制者所遵守的约束性公司规则、处理者所遵守的约束性公司规则的数据转移，以及符合为了保证第47条规定的对数据主体的个人数据保障而采取的必要措施的个人数据转移，为了细化此类转移的标准和要求，发布符合本段（e）点的指导方针、建议和最佳操作；
(j)为了进一步细化第49（1）条规定的个人数据转移所需要的标准和要求，发布符合本段（e）点的指导方针、建议和最佳操作；
(k)对于涉及第58（1）、（2）、（3）条规定的适用措施和确定第83条规定的行政处罚，为监管机构起草指导方针；
(l)对本段（e）点和（f）点规定的指导方针、建议和最佳操作的实际运用进行审查；
(m)对自然人设报告侵犯本条例的行为，为其设立符合第54（2）条的一般程序，，发布符合本段（e）点的指导方针、建议和最佳操作；
(n)鼓励起草行为准则，设立符合第40条和第42条的数据保护认证机制、数据保护印章和标记；
(o)对认证机构进行委任，根据第43条而进行阶段性审查，对符合第43（6）条的委任机构、符合第42（7）条而在第三国设立的被认证的控制者或处理者进行持续性的公共登记；
(p)为了委任第42条规定的认证机构而细化第43（3）条规定的要求；
(q)向欧盟委员会提供关于第43（8）条规定的验证要求的意见；
(r)向欧盟委员会提供关于第12（7）条规定的图标的意见；
(s)评估第三国或国际组织的保护程度，包括评估第三国、某个地区、或该第三国的一个或多个特定部门，或国际组织是否仍然提供足够程度的保护。为了实现这一目的，欧盟委员会应当向欧盟数据保护委员会提供所有必要的记录，包括和该第三国政府的进行的涉及到第三国、某个地区、或该第三国的一个或多个特定部门，或国际组织的通信。
(t)发布按照第64（1）条规定的一致性机制而做出的关于监管机构的决议草案，按第64（2）条提交的事项，以及发布根据第65条，包括第66条规定的约束性决定。
(u)促进监管机构之间的合作，有效的双边或多边信息交换，以及最好的实践；
(v)促进共同培训项目，协助监管机构之间以及——如果适用的话——监管机构与第三国监管机构或国际组织之间的人员交换；
(w)促进与全球数据保护监管机构的知识交流、数据保护立法的记录与实践。
(x)发布关于根据第40（9）条在欧盟层面起草的行为准则的意见；以及
(y)对于监管机构和法庭做出的决定以及根据一致性机制所处置的事项，保持一份公众可以访问的电子登记。
2．当欧盟委员会请求欧盟数据保护委员会提供意见，欧盟委员会可以在考虑事项的紧急程度后表明期限要求。
3．欧盟数据保护委员会应当将其意见、指导纲领、推荐以及最佳操作告知欧盟委员会和第93条规定的理事会，而且应当将它们公开。
4．如果适用的话，欧盟数据保护委员会应当咨询当事人，給与他们在一段合理期限内进行评论的机会。在不影响第76条的前提下，欧盟数据保护委员会应当将咨询程序的结果公之于众。
Article 71 Reports / 第71条 报告
The Board shall draw up an annual report regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to processing in the Union and, where relevant, in third countries and international organisations. The report shall be made public and be transmitted to the European Parliament, to the Council and to the Commission.
The annual report shall include a review of the practical application of the guidelines, recommendations and best practices referred to in point (l) of Article 70(1) as well as of the binding decisions referred to in Article 65.
1．对于欧盟内部、相关第三国以及国际组织中的数据处理活动，若涉及自然人的保护，欧盟数据保护委员会应当起草年度报告。报告应当公开，而且应当传输给欧洲议会、欧盟理事会和欧盟委员会。
2．年度报告应当包括第70（1）条（l）点规定的对指导方针、建议和最佳操作的实际运用进行审查，以及第65条规定的约束性决议。
Article 72 Procedure / 第72条 程序
The Board shall take decisions by a simple majority of its members, unless otherwise provided for in this Regulation.
The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure by a two-thirds majority of its members and organise its own operational arrangements.
1．欧盟数据保护委员会应当通过其成员的简单多数做出决定，除非本条例有相反规定。
2．欧盟数据保护委员会应当以其成员的三分之二多数制定程序规则，组建其自身的操作机制。
Article 73 Chair / 第73条 主席
The Board shall elect a chair and two deputy chairs from amongst its members by simple majority.
The term of office of the Chair and of the deputy chairs shall be five years and be renewable once.
1．欧盟数据保护委员会应当通过简单多数的方式从其成员中选举一位主席、两位副主席。
2．主席以及副主席职位的任期应当是5年，可以连任一届。
Article 74 Tasks of the Chair / 第74条 主席的任务
The Chair shall have the following tasks:
to convene the meetings of the Board and prepare its agenda;
to notify decisions adopted by the Board pursuant to Article 65 to the lead supervisory authority and the supervisory authorities concerned;
to ensure the timely performance of the tasks of the Board, in particular in relation to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63.
The Board shall lay down the allocation of tasks between the Chair and the deputy chairs in its rules of procedure.
1．主席具有如下任务：
(a)召集欧盟数据保护委员会的会议，准备会议议程；
(b)将委员会根据第65条而做出的决定告知第65条规定的领导性监管机构和相关监管机构；
(c)保证欧盟数据保护委员会任务的及时履行，特别是和第63规定的一致性机制相关的任务。
2．欧盟数据保护委员会应当在其程序规则中对主席与副主席的任务分工进行分配。
Article 75 Secretariat / 第75条 秘书
The Board shall have a secretariat, which shall be provided by the European Data Protection Supervisor.
The secretariat shall perform its tasks exclusively under the instructions of the Chair of the Board.
The staff of the European Data Protection Supervisor involved in carrying out the tasks conferred on the Board by this Regulation shall be subject to separate reporting lines from the staff involved in carrying out tasks conferred on the European Data Protection Supervisor.
Where appropriate, the Board and the European Data Protection Supervisor shall establish and publish a Memorandum of Understanding implementing this Article, determining the terms of their cooperation, and applicable to the staff of the European Data Protection Supervisor involved in carrying out the tasks conferred on the Board by this Regulation.
The secretariat shall provide analytical, administrative and logistical support to the Board.
The secretariat shall be responsible in particular for:
the day-to-day business of the Board;
communication between the members of the Board, its Chair and the Commission;
communication with other institutions and the public;
the use of electronic means for the internal and external communication;
the translation of relevant information;
the preparation and follow-up of the meetings of the Board;
the preparation, drafting and publication of opinions, decisions on the settlement of disputes between supervisory authorities and other texts adopted by the Board.
1．欧盟数据保护委员会应当有一名秘书，其应当由欧盟数据保护监督者来任命。
2．秘书应当严格按照欧盟数据保护委员会主席的指示履行其职责。
3．欧盟数据保护监管者的员工，如果涉及履行到本条例赋予给欧盟数据保护委员会的任务，应当与涉及履行赋予给欧盟数据保护监管者的任务的员工遵守不同的报告程序。
4．在适用的情况下，欧盟数据保护委员会和欧盟数据保护监管者应当撰写与发布一份实施本条的谅解备忘录，确定它们之间合作的条款，在涉及履行本条例赋予给欧盟数据保护委员会的任务时，谅解备忘录适用于欧盟数据保护监管者的员工。
5．秘书应当向欧盟数据保护委员会提供分析、管理与后期支持。
6．秘书应当对如下事项负责：
(a)欧盟数据保护委员会的日常事务；
(b)欧盟数据保护委员会、欧盟数据保护委员会主席与欧盟委员会之间的交流；
(c)与其他机构及公众的交流；
内部交流与外部交流中对电子手段的使用；
(e)对相关信息的翻译；
(f)对欧盟数据保护委员会会议的准备与跟踪；
(g)准备、起草与发布欧盟数据保护委员会对监管机构之间分歧的意见与决定，以及其他文本。
Article 76 Confidentiality / 第76条 机密性
The discussions of the Board shall be confidential where the Board deems it necessary, as provided for in its rules of procedure.
Access to documents submitted to members of the Board, experts and representatives of third parties shall be governed by Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (21).
1．欧盟数据保护委员会若认为根据程序规则的要求，有必要秘密开展某项讨论活动，那么该讨论活动就应当严格保密。
2．访问提交给欧盟数据保护委员会的成员、专家与第三方代表的文件，应当遵守欧洲议会和欧盟理事会的 (EC) No 1049/2001条例[1]。
CHAPTER VIII Remedies, liability and penalties / 第八章 救济、责任与惩罚
Article 77 Right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority / 第77条 向监管机构提起申诉的权利
Without prejudice to any other administrative or judicial remedy, every data subject shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, in particular in the Member State of his or her habitual residence, place of work or place of the alleged infringement if the data subject considers that the processing of personal data relating to him or her infringes this Regulation.
The supervisory authority with which the complaint has been lodged shall inform the complainant on the progress and the outcome of the complaint including the possibility of a judicial remedy pursuant to Article 78.
1．在不影响任何其他行政或司法救济的前提下，每个数据主体都有向监管机构进行申诉的权利，这尤其适用于以下地点的监管机构：数据主体所属的成员国或经常居住地、工作地、或数据主体认为处理其个人数据违反本条例的发生地。
2．收到申诉的监管机构应当告知申诉者申诉的进展和结果，包括符合第78条的司法救济的可能性。
Article 78 Right to an effective judicial remedy against a supervisory authority / 第78条 针对监管机构的有效司法救济权
Without prejudice to any other administrative or non-judicial remedy, each natural or legal person shall have the right to an effective judicial remedy against a legally binding decision of a supervisory authority concerning them.
Without prejudice to any other administrative or non-judicial remedy, each data subject shall have the right to a an effective judicial remedy where the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Articles 55 and 56 does not handle a complaint or does not inform the data subject within three months on the progress or outcome of the complaint lodged pursuant to Article 77.
Proceedings against a supervisory authority shall be brought before the courts of the Member State where the supervisory authority is established.
Where proceedings are brought against a decision of a supervisory authority which was preceded by an opinion or a decision of the Board in the consistency mechanism, the supervisory authority shall forward that opinion or decision to the court.
1．在不影响其他任何行政或司法救济的前提下，任何自然人或法人都有权对关乎他们的监管机构的有法律约束力的决定获得有效的司法救济。
2．在不影响其他任何行政或司法救济的前提下，如果根据第55条和第56条的有权监管机构不处置申诉，或者在三个月内没有向数据主体告知第77条规定的申诉的进展或结果，任何自然人或法人都有权获得有效的司法救济。
3．针对监管机构的法律诉讼应当在监管机构所在的成员国的法庭提起。
4．如果针对监管机构决定的法律诉讼发生在欧盟数据保护委员会根据一致性机制而做出意见或决定之前，监管机构应当将其意见或决定告知法院。
Article 79 Right to an effective judicial remedy against a controller or processor / 第79条 针对控制者或处理者的有效司法救济权
Without prejudice to any available administrative or non-judicial remedy, including the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority pursuant to Article 77, each data subject shall have the right to an effective judicial remedy where he or she considers that his or her rights under this Regulation have been infringed as a result of the processing of his or her personal data in non-compliance with this Regulation.
Proceedings against a controller or a processor shall be brought before the courts of the Member State where the controller or processor has an establishment. Alternatively, such proceedings may be brought before the courts of the Member State where the data subject has his or her habitual residence, unless the controller or processor is a public authority of a Member State acting in the exercise of its public powers.
1．在不影响其他任何行政或司法救济的前提下，包括在不影响第77条规定的向监管机构提交申诉的前提下，任何数据主体认为，由于违反本条例而处理其个人数据，导致其被本条例所赋予的权利被侵犯，在这些情形下其都有获取司法救济的权利。
2．针对控制者或处理者的法律诉讼应当在它们拥有机构的成员国的法庭提起。在其他情形下，此类法律诉讼可以在数据主体的经常居住地的法庭提起，除非控制者或处理者是成员国行使其公共权力的公共机构。
Article 80 Representation of data subjects / 第80条 对数据主体的代表
The data subject shall have the right to mandate a not-for-profit body, organisation or association which has been properly constituted in accordance with the law of a Member State, has statutory objectives which are in the public interest, and is active in the field of the protection of data subjects’ rights and freedoms with regard to the protection of their personal data to lodge the complaint on his or her behalf, to exercise the rights referred to in Articles 77, 78 and 79 on his or her behalf, and to exercise the right to receive compensation referred to in Article 82 on his or her behalf where provided for by Member State law.
Member States may provide that any body, organisation or association referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, independently of a data subject’s mandate, has the right to lodge, in that Member State, a complaint with the supervisory authority which is competent pursuant to Article 77 and to exercise the rights referred to in Articles 78 and 79 if it considers that the rights of a data subject under this Regulation have been infringed as a result of the processing.
1．数据主体有权委托非盈利机构、实体或协会代表其行使第77、78、79条规定的权利，以及在成员国法律规定的情形下，代表其行使第82条规定的获得赔偿的权利。非盈利机构、实体或协会应具备如下条件：按照成员国法律设立，其章程目标是实现公共利益，在为了保护数据主体的权利与自由而代表个人提起申诉方面表现积极。
2．不论数据主体是否委托，成员国都可以规定，本条第1段所规定的任何机构、组织或协会如果认为本条例所规定的数据主体的权利已经因为处理而受到侵犯，都有权在成员国向第77条规定的有权监管机构提起申诉，行使第78条和第79条规定的权利。
Article 81 Suspension of proceedings / 第81条 法律诉讼的中止
Where a competent court of a Member State has information on proceedings, concerning the same subject matter as regards processing by the same controller or processor, that are pending in a court in another Member State, it shall contact that court in the other Member State to confirm the existence of such proceedings.
Where proceedings concerning the same subject matter as regards processing of the same controller or processor are pending in a court in another Member State, any competent court other than the court first seized may suspend its proceedings.
Where those proceedings are pending at first instance, any court other than the court first seized may also, on the application of one of the parties, decline jurisdiction if the court first seized has jurisdiction over the actions in question and its law permits the consolidation thereof.
1．当一个成员国的有管辖权的法院获知，另一成员国的法院准备对涉及同一个控制者或处理者处理的同一主要事项进行判决，该法院应当通知另一成员国的法院已经存在此类法律程序。
2．当另一成员国法院准备对涉及同一个控制者或处理者处理的同一主要事项进行判决，除了首先接收案件的法院，所有有权审理的法院都可以停止其法律程序。
3．在那些诉讼等待初审的情形中，如果首先接收案件的法院对涉及的活动具有管辖权而且其法律允许合并审理，所有除了首先接收案件的法院都可以基于相关一方的申请而拒绝管辖。
Article 82 Right to compensation and liability / 第82条 获取赔偿的权利与责任
Any person who has suffered material or non-material damage as a result of an infringement of this Regulation shall have the right to receive compensation from the controller or processor for the damage suffered.
Any controller involved in processing shall be liable for the damage caused by processing which infringes this Regulation. A processor shall be liable for the damage caused by processing only where it has not complied with obligations of this Regulation specifically directed to processors or where it has acted outside or contrary to lawful instructions of the controller.
A controller or processor shall be exempt from liability under paragraph 2 if it proves that it is not in any way responsible for the event giving rise to the damage.
Where more than one controller or processor, or both a controller and a processor, are involved in the same processing and where they are, under paragraphs 2 and 3, responsible for any damage caused by processing, each controller or processor shall be held liable for the entire damage in order to ensure effective compensation of the data subject.
Where a controller or processor has, in accordance with paragraph 4, paid full compensation for the damage suffered, that controller or processor shall be entitled to claim back from the other controllers or processors involved in the same processing that part of the compensation corresponding to their part of responsibility for the damage, in accordance with the conditions set out in paragraph 2.
Court proceedings for exercising the right to receive compensation shall be brought before the courts competent under the law of the Member State referred to in Article 79(2).
1．任何因为违反本条例而受到物质或非物质性伤害的人都有权从控制者或数据者那里获得对损害的赔偿。
2．任何涉及到处理的控制者都应当对因为违反本条例的处理而受到的损害承担责任。对于处理者，当其没有遵守本条例明确规定的对处理者的要求，或者当其违反控制者的合法指示时，其应当对处理所造成的损失负责。
3．控制者或处理者如果证明自己对引起损失的事件没有任何责任，那么其第2段所规定的责任可以免除。
4．当不止一个控制者或处理者，或控制者与处理者同时涉及到同一处理，而且它们对第2段和第3段规定的处理所引起的所有损失承担责任，每个控制者或处理者都应当对损失负有连带责任，以便保证对数据主体的有效赔偿。
5．当控制者或处理者已经根据第4段的规定对所受损失进行全额赔偿，该控制者或处理者可以按照第2段所规定的条件，要求另一控制者或处理者返回其造成的那部分损失。
6．为了行使其获得赔偿的权利，根据第79（2）条的规定，应当在成员国认可的有管辖权的法院提起诉讼请求。
Article 83 General conditions for imposing administrative fines / 第83条 行政罚款的一般条件
Each supervisory authority shall ensure that the imposition of administrative fines pursuant to this Article in respect of infringements of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall in each individual case be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
Administrative fines shall, depending on the circumstances of each individual case, be imposed in addition to, or instead of, measures referred to in points (a) to (h) and (j) of Article 58(2). When deciding whether to impose an administrative fine and deciding on the amount of the administrative fine in each individual case due regard shall be given to the following:
the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement taking into account the nature scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the number of data subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by them;
the intentional or negligent character of the infringement;
any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the damage suffered by data subjects;
the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor taking into account technical and organisational measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;
any relevant previous infringements by the controller or processor;
the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority, in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
the manner in which the infringement became known to the supervisory authority, in particular whether, and if so to what extent, the controller or processor notified the infringement;
where measures referred to in Article 58(2) have previously been ordered against the controller or processor concerned with regard to the same subject-matter, compliance with those measures;
adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40 or approved certification mechanisms pursuant to Article 42; and
any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as financial benefits gained, or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, from the infringement.
If a controller or processor intentionally or negligently, for the same or linked processing operations, infringes several provisions of this Regulation, the total amount of the administrative fine shall not exceed the amount specified for the gravest infringement.
Infringements of the following provisions shall, in accordance with paragraph 2, be subject to administrative fines up to 10 000 000 EUR, or in the case of an undertaking, up to 2 % of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher:
the obligations of the controller and the processor pursuant to Articles 8, 11, 25 to 39 and 42 and 43;
the obligations of the certification body pursuant to Articles 42 and 43;
the obligations of the monitoring body pursuant to Article 41(4).
Infringements of the following provisions shall, in accordance with paragraph 2, be subject to administrative fines up to 20 000 000 EUR, or in the case of an undertaking, up to 4 % of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher:
the basic principles for processing, including conditions for consent, pursuant to Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
the data subjects’ rights pursuant to Articles 12 to 22;
the transfers of personal data to a recipient in a third country or an international organisation pursuant to Articles 44 to 49;
any obligations pursuant to Member State law adopted under Chapter IX;
non-compliance with an order or a temporary or definitive limitation on processing or the suspension of data flows by the supervisory authority pursuant to Article 58(2) or failure to provide access in violation of Article 58(1).
Non-compliance with an order by the supervisory authority as referred to in Article 58(2) shall, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, be subject to administrative fines up to 20 000 000 EUR, or in the case of an undertaking, up to 4 % of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher.
Without prejudice to the corrective powers of supervisory authorities pursuant to Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down the rules on whether and to what extent administrative fines may be imposed on public authorities and bodies established in that Member State.
The exercise by the supervisory authority of its powers under this Article shall be subject to appropriate procedural safeguards in accordance with Union and Member State law, including effective judicial remedy and due process.
Where the legal system of the Member State does not provide for administrative fines, this Article may be applied in such a manner that the fine is initiated by the competent supervisory authority and imposed by competent national courts, while ensuring that those legal remedies are effective and have an equivalent effect to the administrative fines imposed by supervisory authorities. In any event, the fines imposed shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Those Member States shall notify to the Commission the provisions of their laws which they adopt pursuant to this paragraph by 25 May 2018 and, without delay, any subsequent amendment law or amendment affecting them.
1．.每个监管机构都应当保证，其根据本条而对第4、5、6条所规定的违反本条例的行为进行罚款，在每个案件中都应当是有效的、成比例的和劝诫性的。
2．根据每个案件的具体情形，行政处罚应当在第58（2）条的（a）至（h）点以及（j）点规定的措施基础上进行追加，或者应当代替这些措施。当在每个具体案件中决定是否应当进行行政处罚，以及决定行政处罚的金额，应当充分考虑如下因素：
(a)结合相关处理的性质、范围或目的，被影响的数据主体的数量以及损害程度而确定的违法的性质、严重性与持续时间；
(b)违法的性质是基于故意还是过失；
(c)控制者或处理者为了减轻数据主体损失而采取的所有行动；
(d)结合控制者或处理者采取的符合第25条和第32条的技术性与组织性措施而认定的控制者或处理者的责任程度；
(e)控制者或处理者之前的所有相关违法行为；
(f)为了纠正违法行为和减轻违法所造成的可能负面影响而和监管机构进行合作的程度；
(g)为违法行为所影响的个人数据类型；
(h)监管机构得知违法行为的方式，特别是控制者或处理者是否对违法行为进行了报告，以及在何种程度上进行了报告；
(i)如果对同一主题事项已经对控制者或处理者发布第58（2）条规定的措施，对这些措施是否遵守；
(j)遵守符合第40条的已生效的行为准则或符合第42条的已生效的认证机制；以及
(k)对于案件情形可以适用的所有加重或减轻因素，例如因为违法而直接或间接导致的经济收益、避免的损失。
3．如果控制者或处理者故意或过失性地因为同一或相关的处理操作而违反本条例的条款，行政罚款的总额不应当超过最严重违法所确定的额度。
4．违反如下条款，应当按第2段的规定施加最高10 000 000欧元的行政罚款，如果是企业的话，最高可处相当于其上一年全球总营业额2%的金额的罚款，两者取其高的一项进行罚款：
(a)第8，11，25，26，27，28，29，30，31，32，33，34，35，36，37，38，39，42和43条规定的控制者和处理者的责任；
(b)第42条和第43条规定的认证机构的责任；
(c)第41（4）条规定的监管机构的责任。
5．违反如下条款，应当按第2段的规定施加最高20 000 000欧元的行政罚款，如果是企业的话，最高可处相当于其上一年全球总营业额4%的金额的罚款，两者取其高的一项进行罚款：
(a)处理的基本原则，包括第5、6、7和9条规定的同意的条件；
(b)第12条至22条规定的数据主体的权利；
(c)第44条至第49条规定的将个人数据转移到第三国或一个国际组织的接收者；
(d)所有第九章规定的符合成员国法律的责任；
(e)违反监管机构根据第58（2）条对处理所发布的命令、或暂时性或确定性的限制，或对数据流动的中止，或违反第58（1）条拒绝提供访问。
6．违反第58（2）条规定的监管机构发布的命令，应当按第2段的规定施加最高20 000 000欧元的行政罚款，如果是集团的话，可以施加最高前一年全球总营业额4%的罚款，两者取其高的一项进行罚款。
7．在不影响符合第58（2）条的监管机构的矫正权力的前提下，每个成员国都可以制定规则，确定在什么情况下对在其境内设立的公共机构和实体进行行政处罚。
8．监管机构行使本条所规定的权力，应当采取符合欧盟和成员国法律所规定的合适的程序性保障，包括有效的司法救济和正当程序。
9．当成员国的法律体系并不提供行政处罚，本条可以以如下方式适用：可以通过有权监管机构提出行政处罚，然后有职权的全国性法院进行适用，同时，应保证那些法律救济是有效的，而且这些法律救济与监管机构所施加的行政处罚具有同等效力。不论在何种情形中，所施加的处罚必须是有效的、成比例的和劝诫性的。那些成员国应当[在本条例生效两年内]将根据本段所制定的法律条款、所有后续的修正性法律或影响它们的法律修订及时告知欧盟委员会。
Article 84 Penalties / 第84条 惩罚
Member States shall lay down the rules on other penalties applicable to infringements of this Regulation in particular for infringements which are not subject to administrative fines pursuant to Article 83, and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. Such penalties shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
Each Member State shall notify to the Commission the provisions of its law which it adopts pursuant to paragraph 1, by 25 May 2018 and, without delay, any subsequent amendment affecting them.
1．成员国应当制定可适用于违反本条例的其他惩罚的规则，特别是对于那些不受第83条规定的行政处罚约束的违法行为，成员国应当制定必要措施保证这些惩罚规则得到执行。此类惩罚应当是有效的、成比例的和劝诫性的。
2．对于符合第1段所制定的法律，每个成员国的应当[在本条例生效的两年内]将其法律条款告知欧盟委员会，而且应当及时告知影响条款的后续修订。
CHAPTER IX Provisions relating to specific processing situations / 第九章 和特定处理情形相关的条款
Article 85 Processing and freedom of expression and information / 第85条 处理、表达自由与信息
Member States shall by law reconcile the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to this Regulation with the right to freedom of expression and information, including processing for journalistic purposes and the purposes of academic, artistic or literary expression.
For processing carried out for journalistic purposes or the purpose of academic artistic or literary expression, Member States shall provide for exemptions or derogations from Chapter II (principles), Chapter III (rights of the data subject), Chapter IV (controller and processor), Chapter V (transfer of personal data to third countries or international organisations), Chapter VI (independent supervisory authorities), Chapter VII (cooperation and consistency) and Chapter IX (specific data processing situations) if they are necessary to reconcile the right to the protection of personal data with the freedom of expression and information.
Each Member State shall notify to the Commission the provisions of its law which it has adopted pursuant to paragraph 2 and, without delay, any subsequent amendment law or amendment affecting them.
1．成员国应当通过制定法律调和符合本条例制定的个人数据保护权与表达自由权与信息权，包括调和为了新闻目的和学术、艺术或文学表达目的而进行的处理。
2．对于出于新闻目的和学术、艺术或文学表达目的而进行的处理，如果对于调和符合本条例制定的个人数据保护权与表达自由权与信息权有必要，成员国应当对第二章（原则）、第三章（数据主体的权利）、第四章（控制者和处理者）、第五章（个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织）、第六章（独立监管机构）、第七章（合作与一致性）和第九章（特定数据处理的情形）的规定进行豁免或克减。
3．每个成员国都应当将其按照第2段所制定的法律条款告知欧盟委员会，而且应当将所有后续的修正性法律或影响它们的法律修订及时告知欧盟委员会。
Article 86 Processing and public access to official documents / 第86条 处理与公众对官方文件的访问
Personal data in official documents held by a public authority or a public body or a private body for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest may be disclosed by the authority or body in accordance with Union or Member State law to which the public authority or body is subject in order to reconcile public access to official documents with the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to this Regulation.
为了调和公众对官方文件的访问与本条例规定的个人数据保护权，对于公共机构或公共实体或为了实现公共利益而履行任务的私人实体所拥有的官方文件中的个人数据，机构或实体可以根据成员国为机构或实体而制定的法律而公开。
Article 87 Processing of the national identification number / 第87条 对全国性身份识别号码的处理
Member States may further determine the specific conditions for the processing of a national identification number or any other identifier of general application. In that case the national identification number or any other identifier of general application shall be used only under appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of the data subject pursuant to this Regulation.
成员国可以对处理全国性身份识别号码或其他一般性识别标识的特定情形做出规定。在这种情形下，只有对本条例规定的数据主体的权利与自由采取适当安全保障，才能使用全国性身份识别号码或其他一般性识别标识。
Article 88 Processing in the context of employment / 第88条 雇佣语境下的处理
Member States may, by law or by collective agreements, provide for more specific rules to ensure the protection of the rights and freedoms in respect of the processing of employees’ personal data in the employment context, in particular for the purposes of the recruitment, the performance of the contract of employment, including discharge of obligations laid down by law or by collective agreements, management, planning and organisation of work, equality and diversity in the workplace, health and safety at work, protection of employer’s or customer’s property and for the purposes of the exercise and enjoyment, on an individual or collective basis, of rights and benefits related to employment, and for the purpose of the termination of the employment relationship.
Those rules shall include suitable and specific measures to safeguard the data subject’s human dignity, legitimate interests and fundamental rights, with particular regard to the transparency of processing, the transfer of personal data within a group of undertakings, or a group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity and monitoring systems at the work place.
Each Member State shall notify to the Commission those provisions of its law which it adopts pursuant to paragraph 1, by 25 May 2018 and, without delay, any subsequent amendment affecting them.
1．多个成员国可以通过法律或通过协定制定特定规则，以保证在雇佣语境下处理雇员个人数据保证其权利与自由。这在如下情形中尤其适用：为了招聘、履行雇佣合同，包括法律或集体合同规定的免除合同；对工作的管理、计划与组织；工作场所的合理性与多样性；工作中的健康与安全，对员工与顾客财产的保护；为了行使和享受雇佣相关的权利与收益；以及为了终止雇佣关系。
2．此类规则应当包括为保障数据主体人身尊严、正当利益与基本权利的合适与特定的措施。这在涉及到如下事项时尤其适用：处理的透明性；在一群企业中转移个人数据；或进行联合经济活动的一群企业和工作场所的监管系统。
3．每个成员国应当[在本条例生效的两年内]将其按照第1段所制定的那些法律条款告知欧盟委员会，而且应当及时告知影响条款的后续修订。
Article 89 Safeguards and derogations relating to processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes / 第89条 为了实现公共利益、科学或历史研究或统计目的处理中的安全保障与克减
Processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, shall be subject to appropriate safeguards, in accordance with this Regulation, for the rights and freedoms of the data subject. Those safeguards shall ensure that technical and organisational measures are in place in particular in order to ensure respect for the principle of data minimisation. Those measures may include pseudonymisation provided that those purposes can be fulfilled in that manner. Where those purposes can be fulfilled by further processing which does not permit or no longer permits the identification of data subjects, those purposes shall be fulfilled in that manner.
Where personal data are processed for scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, Union or Member State law may provide for derogations from the rights referred to in Articles 15, 16, 18 and 21 subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in so far as such rights are likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of the specific purposes, and such derogations are necessary for the fulfilment of those purposes.
Where personal data are processed for archiving purposes in the public interest, Union or Member State law may provide for derogations from the rights referred to in Articles 15, 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21 subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in so far as such rights are likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of the specific purposes, and such derogations are necessary for the fulfilment of those purposes.
Where processing referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 serves at the same time another purpose, the derogations shall apply only to processing for the purposes referred to in those paragraphs.
1．为了实现公共利益、科学或历史研究或统计目而处理，应当采取符合本条例的恰当防护措施，保障数据主体的权利与自由。这些防护措施应当确保，为了保证数据最小化原则，已经采取技术与组织性的措施。这些措施可以包括匿名化，如果匿名化也能实现上诉目的。如果在进一步处理中实现对数据主体无法识别也可以实现上诉目的，那就应当采取这种方式处理。
2．对于为了实现公共利益、科学或历史研究或统计目的处理，成员国的法律可以按照本条第1段所规定的情形与防护措施对第15、16、18、21条所规定的权利进行克减——如果此类权利可能彻底阻碍或严重阻碍实现上述目的，而此类克减对于实现上诉目的是必要的。
3．当个人数据处理是为了实现公共利益，欧盟或成员国的法律可以按照本条第1段所规定的情形与防护措施对第15、16、18、19、20和21条规定的权利进行克减——如果此类权利可能彻底阻碍或严重阻碍实现上述目的，而此类克减对于实现上诉目的是必要的。
4．如果第2段和第3段所规定的处理还有其他目的，克减将只适用于为了实现第2段和第3段中所规定的目的的处理。
Article 90 Obligations of secrecy / 第90条 保密责任
Member States may adopt specific rules to set out the powers of the supervisory authorities laid down in points (e) and (f) of Article 58(1) in relation to controllers or processors that are subject, under Union or Member State law or rules established by national competent bodies, to an obligation of professional secrecy or other equivalent obligations of secrecy where this is necessary and proportionate to reconcile the right of the protection of personal data with the obligation of secrecy. Those rules shall apply only with regard to personal data which the controller or processor has received as a result of or has obtained in an activity covered by that obligation of secrecy.
Each Member State shall notify to the Commission the rules adopted pursuant to paragraph 1, by 25 May 2018 and, without delay, any subsequent amendment affecting them.
1．成员国可以制定特定的规则，对第58（1）条（3）和（f）点所规定的、和作为主体的控制者或处理者相关的、全国性有权机构所设立的监管机构的权力进行规定，如果有必要对个人数据保护与保守秘密进行调和与比例性保护，此特定规则可以施加职业性秘密保守责任或其他同等责任。只有在那些保守秘密责任所涉及的活动中或因为此类活动而接收个人数据，此类规则才适用于控制者或处理者。
2．每个成员国的应当[在本条例生效的两年内] 将其按照第1段所制定的那些法律条款告知欧盟委员会，而且应当及时告知影响条款的后续修订。
Article 91 Existing data protection rules of churches and religious associations / 第91条 现有的的对教会和宗教协会的数据保护规则
Where in a Member State, churches and religious associations or communities apply, at the time of entry into force of this Regulation, comprehensive rules relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to processing, such rules may continue to apply, provided that they are brought into line with this Regulation.
Churches and religious associations which apply comprehensive rules in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article shall be subject to the supervision of an independent supervisory authority, which may be specific, provided that it fulfils the conditions laid down in Chapter VI of this Regulation.
1．在本条例生效后，对于适用于某成员国境内教会、宗教协会或团体的保护自然人在处理相关中的综合性规则，如果它们和本条例保持一致，仍然应当适用。
2．对于那些适用符合第1段的综合性规则的教会和宗教协会，其应当接受一个独立监管机构的监管，如果其满足本条例第六章规定的条件，这种独立监管机构可以是特别指定的。
CHAPTER X Delegated acts and implementing acts / 第十章 授权法案与实施性法案
Article 92 Exercise of the delegation / 第92条 对授权的行使
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
The delegation of power referred to in Article 12(8) and Article 43(8) shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time from 24 May 2016.
The delegation of power referred to in Article 12(8) and Article 43(8) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision of revocation shall put an end to the delegation of power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 12(8) and Article 43(8) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed by either the European Parliament or the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.
1．欧盟委员会享有授权法案的制定权，此权力受本条所规定的条件所约束。
2．第12（8）条和43（8）条所规定的授权应当[在本条例生效后]的一段不确定的时间内赋予给欧盟委员会。
3．第12（8）条和43（8）条所规定的授权可以随时被欧洲议会或欧盟理事会撤销。撤销决定应当终止决定所特别指明的授予性权力。撤销决定生效日是欧盟官方杂志发布后的第二天或决定所特别标明的日期。撤销决定不应影响任何已经生效的授权性法案。
4．欧盟委员会一旦制定授权性法案，其应当立刻同时告知欧洲议会和欧盟理事会。
5．根据第12（8）条和第43（8）条而指定的授权性法案，只有欧洲议会或欧盟理事会在其收到通知后三个月内都没有表达反对，或者在三个月内欧洲议会或欧盟理事会已经告知欧洲委员会它们不会反对，其才能生效。如果欧洲议会或欧盟理事会提出延期，这个期间可以再延长三个月。
Article 93 Committee procedure / 第93条 委员会程序
The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. That committee shall be a committee within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 8 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, in conjunction with Article 5 thereof, shall apply.
1．欧盟委员会应当有一个小组对其进行协助。该小组应当是(EU) No 182/2011条例所规定的小组。
2．涉及到此段时，(EU) No182/2011指令第5条应当适用。
3．涉及到此段时，与(EU) No182/2011指令第5条配合的(EU) No182/2011指令第8条应当适用。
CHAPTER XI Final provisions / 第十一章 最后条款
Article 94 Repeal of Directive 95/46/EC / 第94条 95/46/EC指令的废止
Directive 95/46/EC is repealed with effect from 25 May 2018.
References to the repealed Directive shall be construed as references to this Regulation. References to the Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data established by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC shall be construed as references to the European Data Protection Board established by this Regulation.
1．在[本条例生效后的两年]后95/46/EC指令将被废止。
2．当参照废止指令时，应当通过参照本条例来进行解释。对于参照工作小组在95/46/EC指令第29条所规定的处理个人数据中个人保护，这应当以参照本条例所规定的欧盟数据保护委员会来进行解释。
Article 95 Relationship with Directive 2002/58/EC / 第95条 与2002/58/EC的关系
This Regulation shall not impose additional obligations on natural or legal persons in relation to processing in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic communications services in public communication networks in the Union in relation to matters for which they are subject to specific obligations with the same objective set out in Directive 2002/58/EC.
在欧盟的公共通讯网络中提供公众可获取的电子通讯服务的情形中，对于2002/58/EC指令已经施加特殊责任的事项，本条例不应再对同一事项再向自然人或法人施加额外责任。
Article 96 Relationship with previously concluded Agreements / 第96条 和之前已经达成的协议的关系
International agreements involving the transfer of personal data to third countries or international organisations which were concluded by Member States prior to 24 May 2016, and which comply with Union law as applicable prior to that date, shall remain in force until amended, replaced or revoked.
对于[在此条例生效]之前的，符合[在此条例生效]之前所制定的法律的，涉及到将个人数据传输到第三国或国际组织的成员国之间已经达成的国际性协议，在其被修改、替代或撤销之前，应当一直具有效力。
Article 97 Commission reports / 第97条 委员会报告
By 25 May 2020 and every four years thereafter, the Commission shall submit a report on the evaluation and review of this Regulation to the European Parliament and to the Council. The reports shall be made public.
In the context of the evaluations and reviews referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission shall examine, in particular, the application and functioning of:
Chapter V on the transfer of personal data to third countries or international organisations with particular regard to decisions adopted pursuant to Article 45(3) of this Regulation and decisions adopted on the basis of Article 25(6) of Directive 95/46/EC;
Chapter VII on cooperation and consistency.
For the purpose of paragraph 1, the Commission may request information from Member States and supervisory authorities.
In carrying out the evaluations and reviews referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall take into account the positions and findings of the European Parliament, of the Council, and of other relevant bodies or sources.
The Commission shall, if necessary, submit appropriate proposals to amend this Regulation, in particular taking into account of developments in information technology and in the light of the state of progress in the information society.
1．在[本条例生效后的四年后]，以及在这之后的每四年，欧盟委员会应当向欧洲议会和欧盟理事会提交一份对本条例的评价与审查。该报告应当公之于众。
2．在第1段所规定的评价与审查情形中，欧盟委员会应当尤其检查如下事项的适用与运作：
(a)第五章规定的将个人数据转移到第三国或国际组织，特别是按照本条例第45（3）条而做出的决定，以及根据95/46/EC第25（6）条而做出的决定；
(b)第七章规定的合作与一致性。
3．为了实现第1段的目的，欧盟委员会可以要求成员国和监管机构提供相关信息。
4．为了进行第1段和第2段规定的评价与审查，欧盟理事会应当考虑欧洲议会、欧盟理事会以及其他相关实体与生产商的立场与调查。
5．在必要的情形下，欧盟委员会应当提交修改本条例的合适动议，特别是如果考虑了信息科技的发展以及信息社会中的发展状态。
Article 98 Review of other Union legal acts on data protection / 第98条 对欧盟其他数据保护法案的审查
The Commission shall, if appropriate, submit legislative proposals with a view to amending other Union legal acts on the protection of personal data, in order to ensure uniform and consistent protection of natural persons with regard to processing. This shall in particular concern the rules relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to processing by Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data.
如果合适的话，欧盟委员会应当提交立法性动议，以便对欧盟的其他个人数据保护法案进行保护，以便保证在处理中对自然人进行一致与一致性的保护。这尤其应当涉及到欧盟机构、实体、办公室和规制机构处理中和自然人保护相关的规则，以及此类数据的自由流动。
Article 99 Entry into force and application / 第99条 生效与适用
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 25 May 2018.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 27 April 2016.
1．本条例的生效时间是其在欧盟官方杂志发布后的二十天后。
2．其适用时间是[本条例生效后的两年后]。
本条例的所有条款都具有约束力，而且应当直接适用于成员国。
